mdop/mbam-v25/upgrade-mbam2.5-sp1.md, before:

---
title:  Upgrading from MBAM 2.5 to MBAM 2.5 SP1 Servicing Release Update
author: TobyTu 
ms.author: ksharma
manager: DCSCPMCAIM365 
audience: ITPro  
ms.topic: article  
ms.prod: mbam
localization_priority: Normal
--- 

# Upgrade from MBAM 2.5 to MBAM 2.5 SP1 Servicing Release Update

This article provides step-by-step instructions to upgrade Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring (MBAM) 2.5 to MBAM 2.5 Service Pack 1 (SP1) together with the Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack (MDOP) July 2018 servicing update in a standalone configuration.

In this guide, we will use a two-server configuration. One server will be a database server that's running Microsoft SQL Server 2016. This server will host the MBAM databases and reports. The other server will be a Windows Server 2012 R2 web server. This server will host "Administration and Monitoring" and "Self-Service Portal."

## Prepare to upgrade MBAM 2.5 SP1

### Know the MBAM servers in your environment

1. SQL Server Database Engine: Server that hosts the MBAM databases.
2. SQL Server Reporting Services: Server that hosts the MBAM reports.
3. Internet Information Services (IIS) web servers: Server that hosts MBAM Web Applications and MBAM services.
4. (Optional) Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager primary site server: The MBAM configuration application is run on this server to integrate MBAM reports with Configuration Manager. These reports are then merged with existing Configuration Manager reports on the Configuration Manager SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) instance.

### Identify service accounts, groups, server name, and reports URL

1. Identify the MBAM application pool service account that's used by IIS web servers to read and write data to MBAM databases.
2. Identify the groups that are used during the MBAM web features configuration and the reports web service URL.
3. Identify the SQL Server name and instance name.
    > [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ANP1]
4. Identify the SQL Server Reporting Services Account that's used for reading compliance data from the Compliance and Audit database.
    > [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ALdZ]

## Upgrade the MBAM infrastructure to the latest version available

> [!NOTE]
> We recommend that you create a full database backup of the MBAM databases before you run the upgrades.

### Upgrade the MBAM SQL Server server

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ALew]

### Upgrade the MBAM web server

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ALex]

## More information

For more information about known issues in MBAM 2.5 SP1, see [Release Notes for MBAM 2.5 SP1](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/release-notes-for-mbam-25-sp1).

Commit message:

update content of upgrade mbam2.5 sp1

mdop/mbam-v25/upgrade-mbam2.5-sp1.md, after:

---
title:  Upgrading from MBAM 2.5 to MBAM 2.5 SP1 Servicing Release Update
author: TobyTu 
ms.author: ksharma
manager: DCSCPMCAIM365 
audience: ITPro  
ms.topic: article  
ms.prod: mbam
localization_priority: Normal
--- 

# Upgrade from MBAM 2.5 to MBAM 2.5 SP1 Servicing Release Update

This article provides step-by-step instructions to upgrade Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring (MBAM) 2.5 to MBAM 2.5 Service Pack 1 (SP1) together with the Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack (MDOP) July 2018 servicing update in a standalone configuration.

In this guide, we will use a two-server configuration. One server will be a database server that's running Microsoft SQL Server 2016. This server will host the MBAM databases and reports. The other server will be a Windows Server 2012 R2 web server. This server will host "Administration and Monitoring" and "Self-Service Portal."

## Prepare to upgrade MBAM 2.5 SP1

### Know the MBAM servers in your environment

1. SQL Server Database Engine: Server that hosts the MBAM databases.
2. SQL Server Reporting Services: Server that hosts the MBAM reports.
3. Internet Information Services (IIS) web servers: Server that hosts MBAM Web Applications and MBAM services.
4. (Optional) Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager primary site server: The MBAM configuration application is run on this server to integrate MBAM reports with Configuration Manager. These reports are then merged with existing Configuration Manager reports on the Configuration Manager SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) instance.

### Identify service accounts, groups, server name, and reports URL

1. Identify the MBAM application pool service account that's used by IIS web servers to read and write data to MBAM databases.
2. Identify the groups that are used during the MBAM web features configuration and the reports web service URL.
3. Identify the SQL Server name and instance name. Watch this video to learn more.

    > [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ANP1]

4. Identify the SQL Server Reporting Services Account that's used for reading compliance data from the Compliance and Audit database. Watch this video to learn more.

    > [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ALdZ]

## Upgrade the MBAM infrastructure to the latest version available

MBAM Server infrastructure installation or upgrade is always performed in the order listed below:

- SQL Server Database Engine: Databases
- SQL Server Reporting Services: Reports
- Web Server: Web Applications
- SCCM Server: SCCM Integrated Reports if applicable
- Clients: MBAM Agent or Client Update
- Group Policy Templates: Update the existing Group Policy with new templates and enable new settings on existing MBAM Group Policy

> [!NOTE]
> We recommend that you create a full database backup of the MBAM databases before you run the upgrades.

### Upgrade the MBAM SQL Server

Watch this video to learn how to upgrade the MBAM SQL Server:

   > [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ALew]

### Upgrade the MBAM Web Server

Watch this video to learn how to upgrade the MBAM Web Server:

   > [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE3ALex]

## More information

For more information about known issues in MBAM 2.5 SP1, see [Release Notes for MBAM 2.5 SP1](https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/mbam-v25/release-notes-for-mbam-25-sp1).
