windows/security/threat-protection/intelligence/developer-resources.md, before:

---
title: Software developer resources
description: This page provides information for developers such as detection criteria, developer questions, and how to check your software against definitions.
keywords: wdsi, software, developer, resources, detection, criteria, questions, scan, software, definitions, cloud, protection
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.date: 07/13/2018
---

# Software developer resources

Concerned about the detection of your software?
If you believe that your application or program has been incorrectly detected by Microsoft security software, submit the relevant files for analysis.

Check out the following resources for information on how to submit and view submissions:
- [Submit files](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/filesubmission)
- [View your submissions](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/submissionhistory)

## Additional resources

### Detection criteria

To objectively identify malware and unidentified software, Microsoft applies a [set of criteria](criteria.md) for evaluating malicious or potentially harmful code.

### Developer questions

Find more guidance about the file submission and detection dispute process in our [FAQ for software developers](developer-faq.md).

### Scan your software

Use [Windows Defender Antivirus](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10?ocid=cx-docs-avreports) to check your software against the latest definitions and cloud protection from Microsoft.

Commit message:

Changed signature and definition to Security intelligence where it made sense.

windows/security/threat-protection/intelligence/developer-resources.md, after:

---
title: Software developer resources
description: This page provides information for developers such as detection criteria, developer questions, and how to check your software against Security intelligence.
keywords: wdsi, software, developer, resources, detection, criteria, questions, scan, software, definitions, cloud, protection, security intelligence
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.date: 07/13/2018
---

# Software developer resources

Concerned about the detection of your software?
If you believe that your application or program has been incorrectly detected by Microsoft security software, submit the relevant files for analysis.

Check out the following resources for information on how to submit and view submissions:
- [Submit files](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/filesubmission)
- [View your submissions](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/submissionhistory)

## Additional resources

### Detection criteria

To objectively identify malware and unidentified software, Microsoft applies a [set of criteria](criteria.md) for evaluating malicious or potentially harmful code.

### Developer questions

Find more guidance about the file submission and detection dispute process in our [FAQ for software developers](developer-faq.md).

### Scan your software

Use [Windows Defender Antivirus](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10?ocid=cx-docs-avreports) to check your software against the latest Security intelligence and cloud protection from Microsoft.
