windows/security/information-protection/windows-information-protection/enlightened-microsoft-apps-and-wip.md, before:

---
title: List of enlightened Microsoft apps for use with Windows Information Protection (WIP) (Windows 10)
description: Learn the difference between enlightened and unenlightened apps, and then review the list of enlightened apps provided by Microsoft along with the text you will need to use to add them to your allowed apps list.
ms.assetid: 17c85ea3-9b66-4b80-b511-8f277cb4345f
keywords: WIP, Windows Information Protection, EDP, Enterprise Data Protection
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: explore
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: justinha
ms.author: justinha
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/26/2019
---

# List of enlightened Microsoft apps for use with Windows Information Protection (WIP)

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10, version 1607 and later
- Windows 10 Mobile, version 1607 and later

Learn the difference between enlightened and unenlightened apps, and then review the list of enlightened apps provided by Microsoft along with the text you will need to use to add them to your allowed apps list.

## Enlightened versus unenlightened apps
Apps can be enlightened or unenlightened:

-   **Enlightened apps** can differentiate between corporate and personal data, correctly determining which to protect, based on your policies.

-   **Unenlightened apps** consider all data corporate and encrypt everything. Typically, you can tell an unenlightened app because:

    -   Windows Desktop shows it as always running in enterprise mode.

    -   Windows **Save As** experiences only allow you to save your files as enterprise.

- **WIP-work only apps** are unenlightened line-of-business apps that have been tested and deemed safe for use in an enterprise with WIP and Mobile App Management (MAM) solutions without device enrollment. Unenlightened apps that are targeted by WIP without enrollment run under personal mode. 

## List of enlightened Microsoft apps
Microsoft has made a concerted effort to enlighten several of our more popular apps, including the following:

- Microsoft Edge

- Internet Explorer 11

- Microsoft People

- Mobile Office apps, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook Mail and Calendar

- Office 365 ProPlus apps, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook

- OneDrive app

- OneDrive sync client (OneDrive.exe, the next generation sync client)

- Microsoft Photos

- Groove Music

- Notepad

- Microsoft Paint

- Microsoft Movies & TV

- Microsoft Messaging

- Microsoft Remote Desktop

## List of WIP-work only apps from Microsoft
Microsoft still has apps that are unenlightened, but which have been tested and deemed safe for use in an enterprise with WIP and MAM solutions.

- Skype for Business

## Adding enlightened Microsoft apps to the allowed apps list
You can add any or all of the enlightened Microsoft apps to your allowed apps list. Included here is the **Publisher name**, **Product or File name**, and **App Type** info for both Microsoft Intune and System Center Configuration Manager.

|Product name |App info |
|-------------|---------|
|Microsoft Edge |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Microsoft People |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.People<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Word Mobile |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.Word<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Excel Mobile |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.Excel<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|PowerPoint Mobile |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.PowerPoint<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|OneNote |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.OneNote<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Outlook Mail and Calendar |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** microsoft.windowscommunicationsapps<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Office 365 ProPlus and Office 2019 Professional Plus |Office 365 ProPlus and Office 2019 Professional Plus apps are set up as a suite. You must use the [O365 ProPlus - Allow and Exempt AppLocker policy files (.zip files)](https://download.microsoft.com/download/7/0/D/70D72459-D72D-4673-B309-F480E3BEBCC9/O365%20ProPlus%20-%20WIP%20Enterprise%20AppLocker%20Policy%20Files.zip) to turn the suite on for WIP.<br>We don't recommend setting up Office by using individual paths or publisher rules.|
|Microsoft Photos |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Windows.Photos<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Groove Music |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.ZuneMusic<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Microsoft Movies & TV |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.ZuneVideo<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Microsoft Messaging |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Messaging<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|IE11 |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** iexplore.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|OneDrive Sync Client|**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** onedrive.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app|
|OneDrive app|**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Microsoftskydrive<br>**Product Version:**Product version: 17.21.0.0 (and later)<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Notepad |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** notepad.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|Microsoft Paint |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** mspaint.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|Microsoft Remote Desktop |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** mstsc.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|Microsoft MAPI Repair Tool |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** fixmapi.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |


>[!NOTE]
>Help to make this topic better by providing us with edits, additions, and feedback. For info about how to contribute to this topic, see [Editing Windows IT professional documentation](https://github.com/Microsoft/windows-itpro-docs/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

added visio and project are not enlightened

windows/security/information-protection/windows-information-protection/enlightened-microsoft-apps-and-wip.md, after:

---
title: List of enlightened Microsoft apps for use with Windows Information Protection (WIP) (Windows 10)
description: Learn the difference between enlightened and unenlightened apps, and then review the list of enlightened apps provided by Microsoft along with the text you will need to use to add them to your allowed apps list.
ms.assetid: 17c85ea3-9b66-4b80-b511-8f277cb4345f
keywords: WIP, Windows Information Protection, EDP, Enterprise Data Protection
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: explore
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: justinha
ms.author: justinha
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 02/26/2019
---

# List of enlightened Microsoft apps for use with Windows Information Protection (WIP)

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10, version 1607 and later
- Windows 10 Mobile, version 1607 and later

Learn the difference between enlightened and unenlightened apps, and then review the list of enlightened apps provided by Microsoft along with the text you will need to use to add them to your allowed apps list.

## Enlightened versus unenlightened apps
Apps can be enlightened or unenlightened:

-   **Enlightened apps** can differentiate between corporate and personal data, correctly determining which to protect, based on your policies.

-   **Unenlightened apps** consider all data corporate and encrypt everything. Typically, you can tell an unenlightened app because:

    -   Windows Desktop shows it as always running in enterprise mode.

    -   Windows **Save As** experiences only allow you to save your files as enterprise.

- **WIP-work only apps** are unenlightened line-of-business apps that have been tested and deemed safe for use in an enterprise with WIP and Mobile App Management (MAM) solutions without device enrollment. Unenlightened apps that are targeted by WIP without enrollment run under personal mode. 

## List of enlightened Microsoft apps
Microsoft has made a concerted effort to enlighten several of our more popular apps, including the following:

- Microsoft Edge

- Internet Explorer 11

- Microsoft People

- Mobile Office apps, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook Mail and Calendar

- Office 365 ProPlus apps, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Outlook

- OneDrive app

- OneDrive sync client (OneDrive.exe, the next generation sync client)

- Microsoft Photos

- Groove Music

- Notepad

- Microsoft Paint

- Microsoft Movies & TV

- Microsoft Messaging

- Microsoft Remote Desktop

>[!NOTE] 
>Microsoft Visio and Microsoft Project are not enlightended apps.

## List of WIP-work only apps from Microsoft
Microsoft still has apps that are unenlightened, but which have been tested and deemed safe for use in an enterprise with WIP and MAM solutions.

- Skype for Business

## Adding enlightened Microsoft apps to the allowed apps list
You can add any or all of the enlightened Microsoft apps to your allowed apps list. Included here is the **Publisher name**, **Product or File name**, and **App Type** info for both Microsoft Intune and System Center Configuration Manager.

|Product name |App info |
|-------------|---------|
|Microsoft Edge |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Microsoft People |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.People<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Word Mobile |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.Word<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Excel Mobile |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.Excel<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|PowerPoint Mobile |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.PowerPoint<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|OneNote |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Office.OneNote<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Outlook Mail and Calendar |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** microsoft.windowscommunicationsapps<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Office 365 ProPlus and Office 2019 Professional Plus |Office 365 ProPlus and Office 2019 Professional Plus apps are set up as a suite. You must use the [O365 ProPlus - Allow and Exempt AppLocker policy files (.zip files)](https://download.microsoft.com/download/7/0/D/70D72459-D72D-4673-B309-F480E3BEBCC9/O365%20ProPlus%20-%20WIP%20Enterprise%20AppLocker%20Policy%20Files.zip) to turn the suite on for WIP.<br>We don't recommend setting up Office by using individual paths or publisher rules.|
|Microsoft Photos |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Windows.Photos<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Groove Music |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.ZuneMusic<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Microsoft Movies & TV |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.ZuneVideo<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Microsoft Messaging |**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Messaging<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|IE11 |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** iexplore.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|OneDrive Sync Client|**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** onedrive.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app|
|OneDrive app|**Publisher:** `CN=Microsoft Corporation, O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Product Name:** Microsoft.Microsoftskydrive<br>**Product Version:**Product version: 17.21.0.0 (and later)<br>**App Type:** Universal app |
|Notepad |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** notepad.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|Microsoft Paint |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** mspaint.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|Microsoft Remote Desktop |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** mstsc.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |
|Microsoft MAPI Repair Tool |**Publisher:** `O=Microsoft Corporation, L=Redmond, S=Washington, C=US`<br>**Binary Name:** fixmapi.exe<br>**App Type:** Desktop app |


>[!NOTE]
>Help to make this topic better by providing us with edits, additions, and feedback. For info about how to contribute to this topic, see [Editing Windows IT professional documentation](https://github.com/Microsoft/windows-itpro-docs/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).
