education/get-started/set-up-windows-10-education-devices.md, before:

---
title: Set up Windows 10 education devices
description: Learn how to use the new Microsoft Education system to set up a cloud infrastructure for your school, acquire devices and apps, and configure and deploy policies to your Windows 10 devices.
keywords: education, Microsoft Education, full cloud IT solution, school, deploy, setup, manage, Windows 10, Intune for Education, Office 365 for Education, School Data Sync, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Store for Education, Azure AD, Set up School PCs
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.topic: get-started
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.pagetype: edu
author: levinec
ms.author: ellevin
ms.date: 10/09/2017
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Set up Windows 10 education devices

> [!div class="step-by-step"]
> [<< Use Intune for Education to manage groups, apps, and settings](use-intune-for-education.md)
> [Finish setup and other tasks >>](finish-setup-and-other-tasks.md)

We recommend using the latest build of Windows 10, version 1703 on your education devices. 

To set up new Windows 10 devices and enroll them to your education tenant, choose from one of these options and follow the link to watch the video or follow the step-by-step guide:
- **Option 1: [Use the Set up School PCs app](https://docs.microsoft.com/education/windows/use-set-up-school-pcs-app)** - You can use the app to create a setup file that you can use to quickly set up one or more Windows 10 devices.
- **Option 2: [Go through Windows OOBE and join the device to Azure AD](set-up-windows-education-devices.md)** - You can go through a typical Windows 10 device setup or first-run experience to configure your device.

> [!div class="step-by-step"]
> [<< Use Intune for Education to manage groups, apps, and settings](use-intune-for-education.md)
> [Finish setup and other tasks >>](finish-setup-and-other-tasks.md)



## Related topic
[Get started: Deploy and manage a full cloud IT solution with Microsoft Education](get-started-with-microsoft-education.md)

Commit message:

updates to Intune and windows docs

education/get-started/set-up-windows-10-education-devices.md, after:

---
title: Set up Windows 10 education devices
description: Learn how to use the new Microsoft Education system to set up a cloud infrastructure for your school, acquire devices and apps, and configure and deploy policies to your Windows 10 devices.
keywords: education, Microsoft Education, full cloud IT solution, school, deploy, setup, manage, Windows 10, Intune for Education, Office 365 for Education, School Data Sync, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Store for Education, Azure AD, Set up School PCs
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.topic: get-started
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.pagetype: edu
author: levinec
ms.author: ellevin
ms.date: 10/09/2017
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Set up Windows 10 education devices

> [!div class="step-by-step"]
> [<< Use Intune for Education to manage groups, apps, and settings](use-intune-for-education.md)
> [Finish setup and other tasks >>](finish-setup-and-other-tasks.md)

We recommend using the latest build of Windows 10, version 1703 on your education devices. 

To set up new Windows 10 devices and enroll them to your education tenant, choose from one of these options and follow the link to watch the video or follow the step-by-step guide:
- **Option 1: [Use the Set up School PCs app](https://docs.microsoft.com/education/windows/use-set-up-school-pcs-app)** - You can use the app to create a setup file that you can use to quickly set up one or more Windows 10 devices.
- **Option 2: [Go through Windows OOBE and join the device to Azure AD](set-up-windows-education-devices.md)** - You can go through a typical Windows 10 device setup or first-run experience to configure your device.
- **Option 3: [Bulk enrollment for Windows devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/intune/windows-bulk-enroll)**
- **Option 4: [Enroll Windows devices in Intune by using Windows Autopilot](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/intune/enrollment-autopilot)**

> [!div class="step-by-step"]
> [<< Use Intune for Education to manage groups, apps, and settings](use-intune-for-education.md)
> [Finish setup and other tasks >>](finish-setup-and-other-tasks.md)



## Related topic
[Get started: Deploy and manage a full cloud IT solution with Microsoft Education](get-started-with-microsoft-education.md)
