windows/deploy/index.md, before:

---
title: Deploy Windows 10 (Windows 10)
description: Learn about deploying Windows 10 for IT professionals.
ms.assetid: E9E2DED5-DBA7-4300-B411-BA0FD39BE18C
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: greg-lindsay
---

# Deploy Windows 10
Learn about deploying Windows 10 for IT professionals.

## In this section

|Topic |Description |
|------|------------|
|[Change history for Deploy Windows 10](change-history-for-deploy-windows-10.md) |This topic lists new and updated topics in the Deploy Windows 10 documentation for [Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile](../index.md). |
|[Windows 10 deployment scenarios](windows-10-deployment-scenarios.md) |To successfully deploy the Windows 10 operating system in your organization, it is important to understand the different ways that it can be deployed, especially now that there are new scenarios to consider. Choosing among these scenarios, and understanding the key capabilities and limitations of each, is a key task. |
|[Deploy Windows 10 with the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit](deploy-windows-10-with-the-microsoft-deployment-toolkit.md) |This guide will walk you through the process of deploying Windows 10 in an enterprise environment using the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT), and MDT 2013 Update 2 specifically. |
|[Deploy Windows 10 with System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager](deploy-windows-10-with-system-center-2012-r2-configuration-manager.md) |If you have Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager in your environment, you will most likely want to use it to deploy Windows 10. This topic will show you how to set up Configuration Manager for operating system deployment and how to integrate Configuration Manager with the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) or, more specifically, MDT 2013 Update 2. |
|[Upgrade to Windows 10 with the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit](upgrade-to-windows-10-with-the-microsoft-deployment-toolkit.md) |The simplest path to upgrade PCs that are currently running Windows 7, Windows 8, or Windows 8.1 to Windows 10 is through an in-place upgrade. You can use a Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) 2013 Update 2 task sequence to completely automate the process. |
|[Upgrade to Windows 10 with System Center Configuration Manager](upgrade-to-windows-10-with-system-center-configuraton-manager.md) |The simplest path to upgrade PCs currently running Windows 7, Windows 8, or Windows 8.1 to Windows 10 is through an in-place upgrade. You can use a System Center Configuration Manager task sequence to completely automate the process. |
|[Configure a PXE server to load Windows PE](configure-a-pxe-server-to-load-windows-pe.md) |This guide describes how to configure a PXE server to load Windows PE by booting a client computer from the network. |
|[Windows 10 edition upgrade](windows-10-edition-upgrades.md) |With Windows 10, you can quickly upgrade from one edition of Windows 10 to another, provided the upgrade path is supported. |
|[Windows 10 upgrade paths](windows-10-upgrade-paths.md) |You can upgrade directly to Windows 10 from a previous operating system. |
|[Deploy Windows To Go in your organization](deploy-windows-to-go.md) |This topic helps you to deploy Windows To Go in your organization. Before you begin deployment, make sure that you have reviewed the topics [Windows To Go: feature overview](../plan/windows-to-go-overview.md) and [Prepare your organization for Windows To Go](../plan/prepare-your-organization-for-windows-to-go.md) to ensure that you have the correct hardware and are prepared to complete the deployment. You can then use the steps in this topic to start your Windows To Go deployment. |
|[Update Windows 10 images with provisioning packages](update-windows-10-images-with-provisioning-packages.md) |Use a provisioning package to apply settings, profiles, and file assets to a Windows 10 image. |
|[Upgrade a Windows Phone 8.1 to Windows 10 Mobile with Mobile Device Management](upgrade-windows-phone-8-1-to-10.md) |This topic describes how to upgrade eligible Windows Phone 8.1 devices to Windows 10 Mobile. |
|[Sideload apps in Windows 10](sideload-apps-in-windows-10.md) |Sideload line-of-business apps in Windows 10. |
|[Volume Activation [client]](volume-activation-windows-10.md) |This guide is designed to help organizations that are planning to use volume activation to deploy and activate Windows 10, including organizations that have used volume activation for earlier versions of Windows. |
|[Windows 10 deployment tools reference](windows-10-deployment-tools-reference.md) |Learn about the tools available to deploy Windows 10. |

## Related topics
- [Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile](../index.md)

Commit message:

Added Upgrade Analytics links to applicable deploy-related content.

windows/deploy/index.md, after:

---
title: Deploy Windows 10 (Windows 10)
description: Learn about deploying Windows 10 for IT professionals.
ms.assetid: E9E2DED5-DBA7-4300-B411-BA0FD39BE18C
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: greg-lindsay
---

# Deploy Windows 10
Learn about deploying Windows 10 for IT professionals.

## In this section

|Topic |Description |
|------|------------|
|[Change history for Deploy Windows 10](change-history-for-deploy-windows-10.md) |This topic lists new and updated topics in the Deploy Windows 10 documentation for [Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile](../index.md). |
|[Windows 10 deployment scenarios](windows-10-deployment-scenarios.md) |To successfully deploy the Windows 10 operating system in your organization, it is important to understand the different ways that it can be deployed, especially now that there are new scenarios to consider. Choosing among these scenarios, and understanding the key capabilities and limitations of each, is a key task. |
|[Manage Windows upgrades with Upgrade Analytics](manage-windows-upgrades-with-upgrade-analytics.md) |With Upgrade Analytics, enterprises now have the tools to plan and manage the upgrade process end to end, allowing them to adopt new Windows releases more quickly. With Windows telemetry enabled, Upgrade Analytics collects system, application, and driver data for analysis. We then identify compatibility issues that can block an upgrade and suggest fixes when they are known to Microsoft. The Upgrade Analytics workflow steps you through the discovery and rationalization process until you have a list of computers that are ready to be upgraded. | 
|[Deploy Windows 10 with the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit](deploy-windows-10-with-the-microsoft-deployment-toolkit.md) |This guide will walk you through the process of deploying Windows 10 in an enterprise environment using the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT), and MDT 2013 Update 2 specifically. |
|[Deploy Windows 10 with System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager](deploy-windows-10-with-system-center-2012-r2-configuration-manager.md) |If you have Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager in your environment, you will most likely want to use it to deploy Windows 10. This topic will show you how to set up Configuration Manager for operating system deployment and how to integrate Configuration Manager with the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) or, more specifically, MDT 2013 Update 2. |
|[Upgrade to Windows 10 with the Microsoft Deployment Toolkit](upgrade-to-windows-10-with-the-microsoft-deployment-toolkit.md) |The simplest path to upgrade PCs that are currently running Windows 7, Windows 8, or Windows 8.1 to Windows 10 is through an in-place upgrade. You can use a Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) 2013 Update 2 task sequence to completely automate the process. |
|[Upgrade to Windows 10 with System Center Configuration Manager](upgrade-to-windows-10-with-system-center-configuraton-manager.md) |The simplest path to upgrade PCs currently running Windows 7, Windows 8, or Windows 8.1 to Windows 10 is through an in-place upgrade. You can use a System Center Configuration Manager task sequence to completely automate the process. |
|[Configure a PXE server to load Windows PE](configure-a-pxe-server-to-load-windows-pe.md) |This guide describes how to configure a PXE server to load Windows PE by booting a client computer from the network. |
|[Windows 10 edition upgrade](windows-10-edition-upgrades.md) |With Windows 10, you can quickly upgrade from one edition of Windows 10 to another, provided the upgrade path is supported. |
|[Windows 10 upgrade paths](windows-10-upgrade-paths.md) |You can upgrade directly to Windows 10 from a previous operating system. |
|[Deploy Windows To Go in your organization](deploy-windows-to-go.md) |This topic helps you to deploy Windows To Go in your organization. Before you begin deployment, make sure that you have reviewed the topics [Windows To Go: feature overview](../plan/windows-to-go-overview.md) and [Prepare your organization for Windows To Go](../plan/prepare-your-organization-for-windows-to-go.md) to ensure that you have the correct hardware and are prepared to complete the deployment. You can then use the steps in this topic to start your Windows To Go deployment. |
|[Update Windows 10 images with provisioning packages](update-windows-10-images-with-provisioning-packages.md) |Use a provisioning package to apply settings, profiles, and file assets to a Windows 10 image. |
|[Upgrade a Windows Phone 8.1 to Windows 10 Mobile with Mobile Device Management](upgrade-windows-phone-8-1-to-10.md) |This topic describes how to upgrade eligible Windows Phone 8.1 devices to Windows 10 Mobile. |
|[Sideload apps in Windows 10](sideload-apps-in-windows-10.md) |Sideload line-of-business apps in Windows 10. |
|[Volume Activation [client]](volume-activation-windows-10.md) |This guide is designed to help organizations that are planning to use volume activation to deploy and activate Windows 10, including organizations that have used volume activation for earlier versions of Windows. |
|[Windows 10 deployment tools reference](windows-10-deployment-tools-reference.md) |Learn about the tools available to deploy Windows 10. |

## Related topics
- [Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile](../index.md)
