windows/deploy/usmt-what-does-usmt-migrate.md, before:

---
title: What Does USMT Migrate (Windows 10)
description: What Does USMT Migrate
ms.assetid: f613987d-0f17-43fe-9717-6465865ceda7
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: greg-lindsay
---

# What Does USMT Migrate?


## In This Topic


-   [Default Migration Scripts](#bkmk-defaultmigscripts)

-   [User Data](#bkmk-3)

-   [Operating-System Components](#bkmk-4)

-   [Supported Applications](#bkmk-2)

-   [What USMT Does Not Migrate](#no)

## <a href="" id="bkmk-defaultmigscripts"></a>Default Migration Scripts


The User State Migration Tool (USMT) 10.0 is designed so that an IT engineer can precisely define migrations using the USMT .xml scripting language. USMT provides the following sample scripts:

-   **MigApp.XML.** Rules to migrate application settings.

-   **MigDocs.XML.** Rules that use the **MigXmlHelper.GenerateDocPatterns** helper function, which can be used to automatically find user documents on a computer without the need to author extensive custom migration .xml files.

-   **MigUser.XML.** Rules to migrate user profiles and user data.

    MigUser.xml gathers everything in a user’s profile and then does a file extension- based search of most of the system for other user data. If data doesn’t match either of these criteria, the data won’t be migrated. For the most part, this file describes a "core" migration.

    The following data does not migrate with MigUser.xml:

    -   Files outside the user profile that don’t match one of the file extensions in MigUser.xml.

    -   Access control lists (ACLs) for folders outside the user profile.

## <a href="" id="bkmk-3"></a>User Data


This section describes the user data that USMT migrates by default, using the MigUser.xml file. It also defines how to migrate ACLs.

-   **Folders from each user profile.** When you specify the MigUser.xml file, USMT migrates everything in a user’s profiles including the following:

    My Documents, My Video, My Music, My Pictures, desktop files, Start menu, Quick Launch settings, and Favorites.

-   **Folders from the All Users and Public profiles.** When you specify the MigUser.xml file, USMT also migrates the following from the **All Users** profile in Windows® XP, or the **Public** profile in Windows Vista, Windows 7, or Windows 8:

    -   Shared Documents

    -   Shared Video

    -   Shared Music

    -   Shared desktop files

    -   Shared Pictures

    -   Shared Start menu

    -   Shared Favorites

-   **File types.** When you specify the MigUser.xml file, the ScanState tool searches the fixed drives, collects and then migrates files with any of the following file extensions:

    **.accdb, .ch3, .csv, .dif, .doc\*, .dot\*, .dqy, .iqy, .mcw, .mdb\*, .mpp, .one\*, .oqy, .or6, .pot\*, .ppa, .pps\*, .ppt\*, .pre, .pst, .pub, .qdf, .qel, .qph, .qsd, .rqy, .rtf, .scd, .sh3, .slk, .txt, .vl\*, .vsd, .wk\*, .wpd, .wps, .wq1, .wri, .xl\*, .xla, .xlb, .xls\*.**

    **Note**  
    The asterisk (\*) stands for zero or more characters.

     

-   **Access control lists.** USMT migrates ACLs for specified files and folders from computers running both Windows® XP and Windows Vista. For example, if you migrate a file named File1.txt that is read-only for User1 and read/write for User2, these settings will still apply on the destination computer after the migration.

**Important**  
To migrate ACLs, you must specify the directory to migrate in the MigUser.xml file. Using file patterns like \*.doc will not migrate a directory. The source ACL information is migrated only when you explicitly specify the directory. For example, `<pattern type="File">c:\test docs</pattern>`.

 

## <a href="" id="bkmk-4"></a>Operating-System Components


USMT migrates operating-system components to a destination computer from computers running Windows 7 and Windows 8

The following components are migrated by default using the manifest files:

-   Accessibility settings

-   Address book

-   Command-prompt settings

-   \*Desktop wallpaper

-   EFS files

-   Favorites

-   Folder options

-   Fonts

-   Group membership. USMT migrates users’ group settings. The groups to which a user belongs can be found by right-clicking **My Computer** on the Start menu and then clicking **Manage**.

-   \*Windows Internet Explorer® settings

-   Microsoft® Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) settings

-   Mouse and keyboard settings

-   Network drive mapping

-   \*Network printer mapping

-   \*Offline files

-   \*Phone and modem options

-   RAS connection and phone book (.pbk) files

-   \*Regional settings

-   Remote Access

-   \*Taskbar settings

-   User personal certificates (all)

-   Windows Mail.

-   \*Windows Media Player

-   Windows Rights Management

\* These settings are not available for an offline migration. For more information, see [Offline Migration Reference](offline-migration-reference.md).

**Important**  
This list may not be complete. There may be additional components that are migrated.

 

**Note**  
Some settings, such as fonts, are not applied by the LoadState tool until after the destination computer has been restarted. For this reason, restart the destination computer after you run the LoadState tool.

 

## <a href="" id="bkmk-2"></a>Supported Applications


Although it is not required for all applications, it is good practice to install all applications on the destination computer before restoring the user state. Installing applications before migrating settings helps to ensure that the migrated settings are not overwritten by the application installers.

**Note**  
The versions of installed applications must match on the source and destination computers. USMT does not support migrating the settings of an earlier version of an application to a later version, except for Microsoft Office.

 

**Note**  
USMT migrates only the settings that have been used or modified by the user. If there is an application setting on the source computer that was not touched by the user, the setting may not migrate.

 

When you specify the MigApp.xml file, USMT migrates the settings for the following applications:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Product</th>
<th align="left">Version</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe Acrobat Reader</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>AOL Instant Messenger</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>6.8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe Creative Suite</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe Photoshop CS</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>8, 9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe ImageReady CS</p></td>
<td align="left"><p></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Apple iTunes</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>6, 7, 8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Apple QuickTime Player</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>5, 6, 7</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Apple Safari</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3.1.2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Google Chrome</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>beta</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Google Picasa</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Google Talk</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>beta</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus 1-2-3</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus Notes</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>6,7, 8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus Organizer</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>5</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus WordPro</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9.9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Intuit Quicken Deluxe</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2009</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Money Plus Business</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2008</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Money Plus Home</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2008</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Mozilla Firefox</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Access®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Excel®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office FrontPage®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office OneNote®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Outlook®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office PowerPoint®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Publisher</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Word</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Opera Software Opera</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9.5</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Outlook Express</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>(only mailbox file)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Project</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Visio®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>RealPlayer Basic</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>11</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Sage Peachtree</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2009</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Skype</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3.8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Mail</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>12, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Messenger</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>8.5, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live MovieMaker</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Photo Gallery</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>12, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Writer</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>12, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Mail</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>(Windows 7 and 8)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Works</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Yahoo Messenger</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Zune™ Software</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <a href="" id="no"></a>What USMT Does Not Migrate


The following is a list of the settings that USMT does not migrate. If you are having a problem that is not listed here, see [Common Issues](usmt-common-issues.md).

### Application Settings

USMT does not migrate the following application settings:

-   Settings from earlier versions of an application. The versions of each application must match on the source and destination computers. USMT does not support migrating the settings of an earlier version of an application to a later version, except for Microsoft Office. USMT can migrate from an earlier version of Microsoft Office to a later version.

-   Application settings and some operating-system settings when a local account is created. For example, if you run /lac to create a local account on the destination computer, USMT will migrate the user data, but only some of the operating-system settings, such as wallpaper and screensaver settings, and no application settings will migrate.

-   Microsoft Project settings, when migrating from Office 2003 to Office 2007 system.

-   ICQ Pro settings, if ICQ Pro is installed in a different location on the destination computer. To successfully migrate the settings of ICQ Pro, you must install ICQ Pro in the same location on the destination computer as it was on the source computer. Otherwise, after you run the LoadState tool, the application will not start. You may encounter problems when:

    -   You change the default installation location on 32-bit destination computers.

    -   You attempt to migrate from a 32-bit computer to a 64-bit computer. This is because the ICQ Pro default installation directory is different on the two types of computers. When you install ICQ Pro on a 32-bit computer, the default location is "C:\\Program Files\\...". The ICQ Pro default installation directory on an x64-based computer, however, is “C:\\Program Files (x86)\\...”.

### Operating-System Settings

USMT does not migrate the following operating-system settings.

-   Local printers, hardware-related settings, drivers, passwords, application binary files, synchronization files, DLL files, or other executable files.

-   Permissions for shared folders. After migration, you must manually re-share any folders that were shared on the source computer.

-   Files and settings migrating between operating systems with different languages. The operating system of the source computer must match the language of the operating system on the destination computer.

-   Customized icons for shortcuts may not migrate.

-   Taskbar settings, when the source computer is running Windows XP.

You should also note the following:

-   You should run USMT from an account with administrative credentials. Otherwise, some data will not migrate. When running the ScanState and LoadState tools you must run the tools in Administrator mode from an account with administrative credentials. If you do not run USMT in Administrator mode, only the user profile that is logged on will be included in the migration. In addition, you must run the ScanState tool on Windows XP from an account with administrative credentials. Otherwise, some operating-system settings will not migrate. To run in Administrator mode, click **Start**, click **All Programs**, click **Accessories**, right-click **Command Prompt**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

-   You can use the /**localonly** option to exclude the data from removable drives and network drives mapped on the source computer. For more information about what is excluded when you specify /**localonly**, see [ScanState Syntax](usmt-scanstate-syntax.md).

## Related topics


[Plan Your Migration](usmt-plan-your-migration.md)

Commit message:

Added caveat for line 110
Per [Offline Migration Reference](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows/deploy/offline-migration-reference), user-group memberships are *not* migrated by default. Use of the **&lt;ProfileControl&gt;** section in Config.xml is required.

windows/deploy/usmt-what-does-usmt-migrate.md, after:

---
title: What Does USMT Migrate (Windows 10)
description: What Does USMT Migrate
ms.assetid: f613987d-0f17-43fe-9717-6465865ceda7
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: greg-lindsay
---

# What Does USMT Migrate?


## In This Topic


-   [Default Migration Scripts](#bkmk-defaultmigscripts)

-   [User Data](#bkmk-3)

-   [Operating-System Components](#bkmk-4)

-   [Supported Applications](#bkmk-2)

-   [What USMT Does Not Migrate](#no)

## <a href="" id="bkmk-defaultmigscripts"></a>Default Migration Scripts


The User State Migration Tool (USMT) 10.0 is designed so that an IT engineer can precisely define migrations using the USMT .xml scripting language. USMT provides the following sample scripts:

-   **MigApp.XML.** Rules to migrate application settings.

-   **MigDocs.XML.** Rules that use the **MigXmlHelper.GenerateDocPatterns** helper function, which can be used to automatically find user documents on a computer without the need to author extensive custom migration .xml files.

-   **MigUser.XML.** Rules to migrate user profiles and user data.

    MigUser.xml gathers everything in a user’s profile and then does a file extension- based search of most of the system for other user data. If data doesn’t match either of these criteria, the data won’t be migrated. For the most part, this file describes a "core" migration.

    The following data does not migrate with MigUser.xml:

    -   Files outside the user profile that don’t match one of the file extensions in MigUser.xml.

    -   Access control lists (ACLs) for folders outside the user profile.

## <a href="" id="bkmk-3"></a>User Data


This section describes the user data that USMT migrates by default, using the MigUser.xml file. It also defines how to migrate ACLs.

-   **Folders from each user profile.** When you specify the MigUser.xml file, USMT migrates everything in a user’s profiles including the following:

    My Documents, My Video, My Music, My Pictures, desktop files, Start menu, Quick Launch settings, and Favorites.

-   **Folders from the All Users and Public profiles.** When you specify the MigUser.xml file, USMT also migrates the following from the **All Users** profile in Windows® XP, or the **Public** profile in Windows Vista, Windows 7, or Windows 8:

    -   Shared Documents

    -   Shared Video

    -   Shared Music

    -   Shared desktop files

    -   Shared Pictures

    -   Shared Start menu

    -   Shared Favorites

-   **File types.** When you specify the MigUser.xml file, the ScanState tool searches the fixed drives, collects and then migrates files with any of the following file extensions:

    **.accdb, .ch3, .csv, .dif, .doc\*, .dot\*, .dqy, .iqy, .mcw, .mdb\*, .mpp, .one\*, .oqy, .or6, .pot\*, .ppa, .pps\*, .ppt\*, .pre, .pst, .pub, .qdf, .qel, .qph, .qsd, .rqy, .rtf, .scd, .sh3, .slk, .txt, .vl\*, .vsd, .wk\*, .wpd, .wps, .wq1, .wri, .xl\*, .xla, .xlb, .xls\*.**

    **Note**  
    The asterisk (\*) stands for zero or more characters.

     

-   **Access control lists.** USMT migrates ACLs for specified files and folders from computers running both Windows® XP and Windows Vista. For example, if you migrate a file named File1.txt that is read-only for User1 and read/write for User2, these settings will still apply on the destination computer after the migration.

**Important**  
To migrate ACLs, you must specify the directory to migrate in the MigUser.xml file. Using file patterns like \*.doc will not migrate a directory. The source ACL information is migrated only when you explicitly specify the directory. For example, `<pattern type="File">c:\test docs</pattern>`.

 

## <a href="" id="bkmk-4"></a>Operating-System Components


USMT migrates operating-system components to a destination computer from computers running Windows 7 and Windows 8

The following components are migrated by default using the manifest files:

-   Accessibility settings

-   Address book

-   Command-prompt settings

-   \*Desktop wallpaper

-   EFS files

-   Favorites

-   Folder options

-   Fonts

-   Group membership. USMT migrates users’ group settings. The groups to which a user belongs can be found by right-clicking **My Computer** on the Start menu and then clicking **Manage**. When running an offline migration, the use of a **&lt;ProfileControl&gt;** section in the Config.xml file is required.

-   \*Windows Internet Explorer® settings

-   Microsoft® Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) settings

-   Mouse and keyboard settings

-   Network drive mapping

-   \*Network printer mapping

-   \*Offline files

-   \*Phone and modem options

-   RAS connection and phone book (.pbk) files

-   \*Regional settings

-   Remote Access

-   \*Taskbar settings

-   User personal certificates (all)

-   Windows Mail.

-   \*Windows Media Player

-   Windows Rights Management

\* These settings are not available for an offline migration. For more information, see [Offline Migration Reference](offline-migration-reference.md).

**Important**  
This list may not be complete. There may be additional components that are migrated.

 

**Note**  
Some settings, such as fonts, are not applied by the LoadState tool until after the destination computer has been restarted. For this reason, restart the destination computer after you run the LoadState tool.

 

## <a href="" id="bkmk-2"></a>Supported Applications


Although it is not required for all applications, it is good practice to install all applications on the destination computer before restoring the user state. Installing applications before migrating settings helps to ensure that the migrated settings are not overwritten by the application installers.

**Note**  
The versions of installed applications must match on the source and destination computers. USMT does not support migrating the settings of an earlier version of an application to a later version, except for Microsoft Office.

 

**Note**  
USMT migrates only the settings that have been used or modified by the user. If there is an application setting on the source computer that was not touched by the user, the setting may not migrate.

 

When you specify the MigApp.xml file, USMT migrates the settings for the following applications:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Product</th>
<th align="left">Version</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe Acrobat Reader</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>AOL Instant Messenger</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>6.8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe Creative Suite</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe Photoshop CS</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>8, 9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Adobe ImageReady CS</p></td>
<td align="left"><p></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Apple iTunes</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>6, 7, 8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Apple QuickTime Player</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>5, 6, 7</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Apple Safari</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3.1.2</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Google Chrome</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>beta</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Google Picasa</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Google Talk</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>beta</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus 1-2-3</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus Notes</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>6,7, 8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus Organizer</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>5</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>IBM Lotus WordPro</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9.9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Intuit Quicken Deluxe</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2009</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Money Plus Business</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2008</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Money Plus Home</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2008</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Mozilla Firefox</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Access®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Excel®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office FrontPage®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office OneNote®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Outlook®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office PowerPoint®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Publisher</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Word</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007, 2010</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Opera Software Opera</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9.5</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Outlook Express</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>(only mailbox file)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Project</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Office Visio®</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2003, 2007</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>RealPlayer Basic</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>11</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Sage Peachtree</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>2009</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Skype</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3.8</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Mail</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>12, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Messenger</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>8.5, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live MovieMaker</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Photo Gallery</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>12, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Live Writer</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>12, 14</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Windows Mail</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>(Windows 7 and 8)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Works</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Yahoo Messenger</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>9</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>Microsoft Zune™ Software</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>3</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## <a href="" id="no"></a>What USMT Does Not Migrate


The following is a list of the settings that USMT does not migrate. If you are having a problem that is not listed here, see [Common Issues](usmt-common-issues.md).

### Application Settings

USMT does not migrate the following application settings:

-   Settings from earlier versions of an application. The versions of each application must match on the source and destination computers. USMT does not support migrating the settings of an earlier version of an application to a later version, except for Microsoft Office. USMT can migrate from an earlier version of Microsoft Office to a later version.

-   Application settings and some operating-system settings when a local account is created. For example, if you run /lac to create a local account on the destination computer, USMT will migrate the user data, but only some of the operating-system settings, such as wallpaper and screensaver settings, and no application settings will migrate.

-   Microsoft Project settings, when migrating from Office 2003 to Office 2007 system.

-   ICQ Pro settings, if ICQ Pro is installed in a different location on the destination computer. To successfully migrate the settings of ICQ Pro, you must install ICQ Pro in the same location on the destination computer as it was on the source computer. Otherwise, after you run the LoadState tool, the application will not start. You may encounter problems when:

    -   You change the default installation location on 32-bit destination computers.

    -   You attempt to migrate from a 32-bit computer to a 64-bit computer. This is because the ICQ Pro default installation directory is different on the two types of computers. When you install ICQ Pro on a 32-bit computer, the default location is "C:\\Program Files\\...". The ICQ Pro default installation directory on an x64-based computer, however, is “C:\\Program Files (x86)\\...”.

### Operating-System Settings

USMT does not migrate the following operating-system settings.

-   Local printers, hardware-related settings, drivers, passwords, application binary files, synchronization files, DLL files, or other executable files.

-   Permissions for shared folders. After migration, you must manually re-share any folders that were shared on the source computer.

-   Files and settings migrating between operating systems with different languages. The operating system of the source computer must match the language of the operating system on the destination computer.

-   Customized icons for shortcuts may not migrate.

-   Taskbar settings, when the source computer is running Windows XP.

You should also note the following:

-   You should run USMT from an account with administrative credentials. Otherwise, some data will not migrate. When running the ScanState and LoadState tools you must run the tools in Administrator mode from an account with administrative credentials. If you do not run USMT in Administrator mode, only the user profile that is logged on will be included in the migration. In addition, you must run the ScanState tool on Windows XP from an account with administrative credentials. Otherwise, some operating-system settings will not migrate. To run in Administrator mode, click **Start**, click **All Programs**, click **Accessories**, right-click **Command Prompt**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

-   You can use the /**localonly** option to exclude the data from removable drives and network drives mapped on the source computer. For more information about what is excluded when you specify /**localonly**, see [ScanState Syntax](usmt-scanstate-syntax.md).

## Related topics


[Plan Your Migration](usmt-plan-your-migration.md)
