windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview of Windows Defender ATP 
description: 
keywords: 
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/20/2018
---

# Overview of Windows Defender ATP capabilities
**Applies to:**

- [Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

Understand the concepts behind the capabilities in Windows Defender ATP so you take full advantage of the complete threat protection platform. 

>[!TIP]
>- Learn about the latest enhancements in Windows Defender ATP: [What's new in Windows Defender ATP](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/11/15/whats-new-in-windows-defender-atp/).
>- Windows Defender ATP demonstrated industry-leading optics and detection capabilities in the recent MITRE evaluation. Read: [Insights from the MITRE ATT&CK-based evaluation](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/12/03/insights-from-the-mitre-attack-based-evaluation-of-windows-defender-atp/).

## In this section 

Topic | Description 
:---|:---
[Attack surface reduction](overview-attack-surface-reduction.md) | Leverage the attack surface reduction capabilities to protect the perimeter of your organization. 
[Next generation protection](../windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md) | Learn about the antivirus capabilities in Windows Defender ATP so you can protect desktops, portable computers, and servers.
[Endpoint detection and response](overview-endpoint-detection-response.md) | Understand how Windows Defender ATP continuously monitors your organization for possible attacks against systems, networks, or users in your organization and the features you can use to mitigate and remediate threats.
[Automated investigation and remediation](automated-investigations-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) | In conjunction with being able to quickly respond to advanced attacks, Windows Defender ATP offers automatic investigation and remediation capabilities that help reduce the volume of alerts in minutes at scale.
[Secure score](overview-secure-score-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) | Quickly assess the security posture of your organization, see machines that require attention, as well as recommendations for actions to better protect your organization - all in one place.
[Advanced hunting](overview-hunting-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) |  Use a powerful search and query language to create custom queries and detection rules.
[Management and APIs](management-apis.md) | Windows Defender ATP supports a wide variety of tools to help you manage and interact with the platform so that you can integrate the service into your existing workflows.
[Microsoft Threat Protection](threat-protection-integration.md) | Microsoft security products work better together. Learn about other security capabilities in the Microsoft threat protection stack. 
[Portal overview](portal-overview-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) |Learn to navigate your way around Windows Defender Security Center.

Commit message:

Updated overview.md with MTE overview link and short desc

windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview of Windows Defender ATP 
description: 
keywords: 
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 11/20/2018
---

# Overview of Windows Defender ATP capabilities
**Applies to:**

- [Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

Understand the concepts behind the capabilities in Windows Defender ATP so you take full advantage of the complete threat protection platform. 

>[!TIP]
>- Learn about the latest enhancements in Windows Defender ATP: [What's new in Windows Defender ATP](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/11/15/whats-new-in-windows-defender-atp/).
>- Windows Defender ATP demonstrated industry-leading optics and detection capabilities in the recent MITRE evaluation. Read: [Insights from the MITRE ATT&CK-based evaluation](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/12/03/insights-from-the-mitre-attack-based-evaluation-of-windows-defender-atp/).

## In this section 

Topic | Description 
:---|:---
[Attack surface reduction](overview-attack-surface-reduction.md) | Leverage the attack surface reduction capabilities to protect the perimeter of your organization. 
[Next generation protection](../windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md) | Learn about the antivirus capabilities in Windows Defender ATP so you can protect desktops, portable computers, and servers.
[Endpoint detection and response](overview-endpoint-detection-response.md) | Understand how Windows Defender ATP continuously monitors your organization for possible attacks against systems, networks, or users in your organization and the features you can use to mitigate and remediate threats.
[Automated investigation and remediation](automated-investigations-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) | In conjunction with being able to quickly respond to advanced attacks, Windows Defender ATP offers automatic investigation and remediation capabilities that help reduce the volume of alerts in minutes at scale.
[Secure score](overview-secure-score-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) | Quickly assess the security posture of your organization, see machines that require attention, as well as recommendations for actions to better protect your organization - all in one place.
[Microsoft Threat Experts](microsoft-threat-experts.md) | Leverage cybersecurity intelligence from managed threat hunting service that provides Security Operation Centers (SOCs) with expert level monitoring and analysis to help them ensure that critical threats in your unique environments don’t get missed.
[Advanced hunting](overview-hunting-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) |  Use a powerful search and query language to create custom queries and detection rules.
[Management and APIs](management-apis.md) | Windows Defender ATP supports a wide variety of tools to help you manage and interact with the platform so that you can integrate the service into your existing workflows.
[Microsoft Threat Protection](threat-protection-integration.md) | Microsoft security products work better together. Learn about other security capabilities in the Microsoft threat protection stack. 
[Portal overview](portal-overview-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) |Learn to navigate your way around Windows Defender Security Center.
