windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/threat-protection-reports-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, before:

---
title: Threat protection report in Windows Defender ATP
description: Track alert detections, categories, and severity using the threat protection report
keywords: alert detection, source, alert by category, alert severity, alert classification, determination
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Threat protection report in Windows Defender ATP

**Applies to:**
- [Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)](https://wincom.blob.core.windows.net/documents/Windows10_Commercial_Comparison.pdf)

[!include[Prerelease information](prerelease.md)]

The threat protection report provides high-level information about alerts generated in your organization. The report includes trending information showing the detection sources, categories, severities, statuses, classifications, and determinations of alerts across time.

The dashboard is structured into two columns:

![Image of the threat protection report](images/atp-threat-protection-reports.png)

Section | Description 
:---|:---
1 | Alerts over time
2 | Alert distribution (last 6 months)


## Alert attributes
The report is made up of cards that display the following alert attributes:

- **Detection sources**: shows information about the sensors and detection technologies that provide the data used by Windows Defender ATP to trigger alerts.

- **Threat categories**: shows the types of threat or attack activity that triggered alerts, indicating possible focus areas for your security operations.

- **Severity**: shows the severity level of alerts, indicating the collective potential impact of threats to your organization and the level of response needed to address them.

- **Status**: shows the resolution status of alerts, indicating the efficiency of your manual alert responses and of automated remediation (if enabled). 

- **Classification & determination**: shows how you have classified alerts upon resolution, whether you have classified them as actual threats (true alerts) or as incorrect detections (false alerts). These cards also show the determination of resolved alerts, providing additional insight like the types of actual threats found or the legitimate activities that were incorrectly detected.

## Date range for alerts over time

By default, the alerts over time column displays alert information from the 30-day period ending in the latest full day. To adjust this, select a time range from the drop-down options.
 

## Filter data

Use the provided filters to include or exclude alerts with certain attributes.

>[!NOTE]
>These filters apply to **all** the cards in the report.

For example, to show data about high-severity alerts only:

1. Under **Filters > Severity**, select **High**
2. Ensure that all other options under **Severity** are deselected.
3. Select **Apply**.

Commit message:

update machine report content, add drill down

windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/threat-protection-reports-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, after:

---
title: Threat protection report in Windows Defender ATP
description: Track alert detections, categories, and severity using the threat protection report
keywords: alert detection, source, alert by category, alert severity, alert classification, determination
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Threat protection report in Windows Defender ATP

**Applies to:**
- [Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)](https://wincom.blob.core.windows.net/documents/Windows10_Commercial_Comparison.pdf)

[!include[Prerelease information](prerelease.md)]

The threat protection report provides high-level information about alerts generated in your organization. The report includes trending information showing the detection sources, categories, severities, statuses, classifications, and determinations of alerts across time.

The dashboard is structured into two columns:

![Image of the threat protection report](images/atp-threat-protection-reports.png)

Section | Description 
:---|:---
1 | Alerts over time
2 | Alert aggregation / 6-month view


By default, the alerts over time column displays alert information from the 30-day period ending in the latest full day. To gain better perspective on trends occurring in your organization, you can fine-tune the reporting period by adjusting the time period shown. To adjust the time period, select a time range from the drop-down options:

- 30 days
- 3 months
- 6 months
- Custom

While the alerts over time column shows trending information alerts, the alert aggregation column shows alert information scoped to 6 months.

 The alert aggregation column allows you to drill down to a particular alert queue with the corresponding filter applied to it. For example, clicking on the EDR bar in the Detection sources card will bring you the alerts queue with results showing only alerts generated from EDR detections. 



## Alert attributes
The report is made up of cards that display the following alert attributes:

- **Detection sources**: shows information about the sensors and detection technologies that provide the data used by Windows Defender ATP to trigger alerts.

- **Threat categories**: shows the types of threat or attack activity that triggered alerts, indicating possible focus areas for your security operations.

- **Severity**: shows the severity level of alerts, indicating the collective potential impact of threats to your organization and the level of response needed to address them.

- **Status**: shows the resolution status of alerts, indicating the efficiency of your manual alert responses and of automated remediation (if enabled). 

- **Classification & determination**: shows how you have classified alerts upon resolution, whether you have classified them as actual threats (true alerts) or as incorrect detections (false alerts). These cards also show the determination of resolved alerts, providing additional insight like the types of actual threats found or the legitimate activities that were incorrectly detected.


 

## Filter data

Use the provided filters to include or exclude alerts with certain attributes.

>[!NOTE]
>These filters apply to **all** the cards in the report.

For example, to show data about high-severity alerts only:

1. Under **Filters > Severity**, select **High**
2. Ensure that all other options under **Severity** are deselected.
3. Select **Apply**.
