devices/surface-hub/device-reset-suface-hub.md, before:

---
title: Device reset (Surface Hub)
description: You may wish to reset your Microsoft Surface Hub.
ms.assetid: 44E82EEE-1905-464B-A758-C2A1463909FF
keywords: reset Surface Hub
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: surfacehub
author: TrudyHa
---

# Device reset (Surface Hub)


You may wish to reset your Microsoft Surface Hub.

Typical reasons for a reset include:

-   The device isn’t running well after installing an update.
-   You’re repurposing the device for a new meeting space and want to reconfigure it.
-   You want to change how you locally manage the device.

Initiating a reset will return the device to the last cumulative Windows update, and remove all local user files and configuration, including:

-   The device account
-   MDM enrollment
-   Domain join or Azure AD join information
-   Local admins on the device
-   Configurations from MDM or the Settings app.

After the reset, you'll be taken through the [first run program](first-run-program-surface-hub.md) again.

## Related topics


[Manage Microsoft Surface Hub](manage-surface-hub.md)

[Microsoft Surface Hub administrator's guide](surface-hub-administrators-guide.md)

Commit message:

adding note about time required for device reset

devices/surface-hub/device-reset-suface-hub.md, after:

---
title: Device reset (Surface Hub)
description: You may wish to reset your Microsoft Surface Hub.
ms.assetid: 44E82EEE-1905-464B-A758-C2A1463909FF
keywords: reset Surface Hub
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: surfacehub
author: TrudyHa
---

# Device reset (Surface Hub)


You may wish to reset your Microsoft Surface Hub.

Typical reasons for a reset include:

-   The device isn’t running well after installing an update.
-   You’re repurposing the device for a new meeting space and want to reconfigure it.
-   You want to change how you locally manage the device.

Initiating a reset will return the device to the last cumulative Windows update, and remove all local user files and configuration, including:

-   The device account
-   MDM enrollment
-   Domain join or Azure AD join information
-   Local admins on the device
-   Configurations from MDM or the Settings app

**Important Note**</br>
Performing a device reset may take up to 6 hours. Do not interrupt the reset process. Interrupting the process will render the device inoperable, requiring warranty service to return to normal functionality.

After the reset, you'll be taken through the [first run program](first-run-program-surface-hub.md) again.

## Related topics


[Manage Microsoft Surface Hub](manage-surface-hub.md)

[Microsoft Surface Hub administrator's guide](surface-hub-administrators-guide.md)
