devices/surface-hub/index.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Surface Hub
description: Documents related to the Microsoft Surface Hub.
ms.assetid: 69C99E91-1441-4318-BCAF-FE8207420555
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: explore
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: surfacehub
author: TrudyHa
localizationpriority: medium
---

# Microsoft Surface Hub


Documents related to the Microsoft Surface Hub.

## In this section


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Topic</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>[Microsoft Surface Hub administrator's guide](surface-hub-administrators-guide.md)</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>This guide covers the installation and administration of devices running Surface Hub, and is intended for use by anyone responsible for these tasks, including IT administrators and developers.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr><td>[Differences between Surface Hub and Windows 10 Enterprise](differences-between-surface-hub-and-windows-10-enterprise.md)</td><td>This topic explains the differences between the operating system on Surface Hub and Windows 10 Enterprise.</td></tr>
<tr><td>[How Surface Hub addresses Wi-Fi Direct security issues](surface-hub-wifi-direct.md)</td><td>This topic provides guidance on Wi-Fi Direct security risks, how the Surface Hub has addressed those risks, and how Surface Hub administrators can configure the device for the highest level of security. </td></tr>
<tr><td>[Change history for Surface Hub](change-history-surface-hub.md)</td><td>This topic lists new and updated topis in the Surface Hub documentation.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

add link to user's guide

devices/surface-hub/index.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Surface Hub
description: Documents related to the Microsoft Surface Hub.
ms.assetid: 69C99E91-1441-4318-BCAF-FE8207420555
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: explore
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: surfacehub
author: TrudyHa
localizationpriority: medium
---

# Microsoft Surface Hub


Documents related to deploying and managing the Microsoft Surface Hub in your organization.

>[Looking for the user's guide for Surface Hub?](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/support/surface-hub)

## In this section


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Topic</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>[Microsoft Surface Hub administrator's guide](surface-hub-administrators-guide.md)</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>This guide covers the installation and administration of devices running Surface Hub, and is intended for use by anyone responsible for these tasks, including IT administrators and developers.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr><td>[Differences between Surface Hub and Windows 10 Enterprise](differences-between-surface-hub-and-windows-10-enterprise.md)</td><td>This topic explains the differences between the operating system on Surface Hub and Windows 10 Enterprise.</td></tr>
<tr><td>[How Surface Hub addresses Wi-Fi Direct security issues](surface-hub-wifi-direct.md)</td><td>This topic provides guidance on Wi-Fi Direct security risks, how the Surface Hub has addressed those risks, and how Surface Hub administrators can configure the device for the highest level of security. </td></tr>
<tr><td>[Change history for Surface Hub](change-history-surface-hub.md)</td><td>This topic lists new and updated topis in the Surface Hub documentation.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
