devices/surface-hub/surface-hub-start-menu.md, before:

---
title: Configure Surface Hub Start menu
description: Use MDM to customize the Start menu on Surface Hub. 
ms.prod: surface-hub
ms.sitesec: library
author: levinec
ms.author: ellevin
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 01/17/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Configure Surface Hub Start menu

The [January 17, 2018 update to Windows 10](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4057144) (build 15063.877) enables customized Start menus on Surface Hub devices. You apply the customized Start menu layout using mobile device management (MDM).

When you apply a customized Start menu layout to Surface Hub, users cannot pin, unpin, or uninstall apps from Start. 

## How to apply a customized Start menu to Surface Hub

The customized Start menu is defined in a Start layout XML file. You have two options for creating your Start layout XML file:

- Edit the [default Surface Hub Start XML](#default)

    -or-

- Configure the desired Start menu on a desktop (pinning only apps that are available on Surface Hub), and then [export the layout](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/customize-and-export-start-layout#export-the-start-layout).

>[!TIP]
>To add a tile with a web link to your desktop start menu, go to the link in Microsoft Edge, select `...` in the top right corner, and select **Pin this page to Start**. See [a Start layout that includes a Microsoft Edge link](#edge) for an example of how links will appear in the XML.

To edit the default XML or the exported layout, familiarize yourself with the [Start layout XML](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/start-layout-xml-desktop). There are a few [differences between Start layout on a deskop and a Surface Hub.](#differences)

When you have your Start menu defined in a Start layout XML, [create an MDM policy to apply the layout.](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-mobile-device-management#a-href-idbkmk-domaingpodeploymentacreate-a-policy-for-your-customized-start-layout)

<span id="differences" />
## Differences between Surface Hub and desktop Start menu

There are a few key differences between Start menu customization for Surface Hub and a Windows 10 desktop:

- You cannot use **DesktopApplicationTile** (https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/start-layout-xml-desktop#startdesktopapplicationtile) in your Start layout XML because Windows desktop applications (Win32) are not supported on Surface Hub.
- You cannot use the Start layout XML to configure the taskbar or the Welcome screen for Surface Hub.  
- Surface Hub supports a maximum of 6 columns (6 1x1 tiles), however, you **must** define `GroupCellWidth=8` even though Surface Hub will only display tiles in columns 0-5, not columns 6 and 7.
- Surface Hub supports a maximum 6 rows (6 1x1 tiles)
- `SecondaryTile`, which is used for links, will open the link in Microsoft Edge.


<span id="default" />
## Example: Default Surface Hub Start layout

```xml
<LayoutModificationTemplate Version="1" xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification">
  <LayoutOptions StartTileGroupCellWidth="8" />
  <DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <StartLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:StartLayout GroupCellWidth="8" xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout">
        <start:Group Name="" xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout">
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="0"
            Column="0"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Getstarted_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
            Size="4x2"
            Row="0"
            Column="2"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.PowerPoint_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.pptim"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="2"
            Column="0"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Word"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="2"
            Column="2"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Excel_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Excel"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="2"
            Column="4"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="c5e2524a-ea46-4f67-841f-6a9465d9d515_cw5n1h2txyewy!App"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="4"
            Column="0"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="microsoft.microsoftskydrive_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="4"
            Column="2"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftPowerBIForWindows_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.MicrosoftPowerBIForWindows"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="4"
            Column="4"/>
        </start:Group>
      </defaultlayout:StartLayout>
    </StartLayoutCollection>
  </DefaultLayoutOverride>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```

<span id="edge" />
## Example: Start layout that includes a Microsoft Edge link

This example shows a link to a website and a link to a .pdf file.

```xml
<LayoutModificationTemplate Version="1" xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification">
  <LayoutOptions StartTileGroupCellWidth="8" />
  <DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <StartLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:StartLayout GroupCellWidth="8" xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout">
        <start:Group Name="" xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout">
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.PowerPoint_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.pptim"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="0"
              Column="0"/>
          <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Word"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="0"
              Column="2"/>
          <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Excel_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Excel"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="0"
              Column="4"/>
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="2"
              Column="0"/>
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="microsoft.microsoftskydrive_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
              Size="2x2" 
             Row="2"
             Column="2"/>   
  <start:SecondaryTile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
           TileID="2678823080"
           DisplayName="Bing"
           Arguments="https://www.bing.com/"
           Square150x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///"
           Wide310x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///"
           ShowNameOnSquare150x150Logo="true"
           ShowNameOnWide310x150Logo="false"
           BackgroundColor="#ffe9e7e7"
           ForegroundText="dark"
           Size="2x2"
           Column="4"
           Row="2"  />
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Windows.Photos_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="4"
              Column="0"/>
    <start:SecondaryTile
             AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
             TileID="6153963000"
             DisplayName="cstrtqbiology.pdf"
             Arguments="-contentTile -formatVersion 0x00000003 -pinnedTimeLow 0x45b7376e -pinnedTimeHigh 0x01d2356c -securityFlags 0x00000000 -tileType 0x00000000 -url 0x0000003a https://www.ada.gov/regs2010/2010ADAStandards/Guidance_2010ADAStandards.pdf"
             Square150x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///"                                                
             Wide310x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///" 
             ShowNameOnSquare150x150Logo="true"                                                      
             ShowNameOnWide310x150Logo="true"
             BackgroundColor="#ff4e4248"
             Size="4x2" 
             Row="4"
             Column="2"/>
        </start:Group>
      </defaultlayout:StartLayout>
    </StartLayoutCollection>
  </DefaultLayoutOverride>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```

>[!NOTE]
>Microsoft Edge tile logos won't appear on secondary tiles because they aren't stored in Surface Hub.
>
>The default value for `ForegroundText` is light; you don't need to include `ForegroundText` in your XML unless you're changing the value to dark.

## More information

- [Blog post: Changing Surface Hub’s Start Menu](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/y0av/2018/02/13/47/)

Commit message:

Updated Edge secondary tile logo code example in Surface Hub topic

devices/surface-hub/surface-hub-start-menu.md, after:

---
title: Configure Surface Hub Start menu
description: Use MDM to customize the Start menu on Surface Hub. 
ms.prod: surface-hub
ms.sitesec: library
author: robmazz
ms.author: robmazz
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 08/15/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: laurawi
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Configure Surface Hub Start menu

The [January 17, 2018 update to Windows 10](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4057144) (build 15063.877) enables customized Start menus on Surface Hub devices. You apply the customized Start menu layout using mobile device management (MDM).

When you apply a customized Start menu layout to Surface Hub, users cannot pin, unpin, or uninstall apps from Start. 

## How to apply a customized Start menu to Surface Hub

The customized Start menu is defined in a Start layout XML file. You have two options for creating your Start layout XML file:

- Edit the [default Surface Hub Start XML](#default)

    -or-

- Configure the desired Start menu on a desktop (pinning only apps that are available on Surface Hub), and then [export the layout](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/customize-and-export-start-layout#export-the-start-layout).

>[!TIP]
>To add a tile with a web link to your desktop start menu, go to the link in Microsoft Edge, select `...` in the top right corner, and select **Pin this page to Start**. See [a Start layout that includes a Microsoft Edge link](#edge) for an example of how links will appear in the XML.

To edit the default XML or the exported layout, familiarize yourself with the [Start layout XML](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/start-layout-xml-desktop). There are a few [differences between Start layout on a deskop and a Surface Hub.](#differences)

When you have your Start menu defined in a Start layout XML, [create an MDM policy to apply the layout.](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-mobile-device-management#a-href-idbkmk-domaingpodeploymentacreate-a-policy-for-your-customized-start-layout)

<span id="differences" />
## Differences between Surface Hub and desktop Start menu

There are a few key differences between Start menu customization for Surface Hub and a Windows 10 desktop:

- You cannot use **DesktopApplicationTile** (https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/configuration/start-layout-xml-desktop#startdesktopapplicationtile) in your Start layout XML because Windows desktop applications (Win32) are not supported on Surface Hub.
- You cannot use the Start layout XML to configure the taskbar or the Welcome screen for Surface Hub.  
- Surface Hub supports a maximum of 6 columns (6 1x1 tiles), however, you **must** define `GroupCellWidth=8` even though Surface Hub will only display tiles in columns 0-5, not columns 6 and 7.
- Surface Hub supports a maximum 6 rows (6 1x1 tiles)
- `SecondaryTile`, which is used for links, will open the link in Microsoft Edge.


<span id="default" />
## Example: Default Surface Hub Start layout

```xml
<LayoutModificationTemplate Version="1" xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification">
  <LayoutOptions StartTileGroupCellWidth="8" />
  <DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <StartLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:StartLayout GroupCellWidth="8" xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout">
        <start:Group Name="" xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout">
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="0"
            Column="0"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Getstarted_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
            Size="4x2"
            Row="0"
            Column="2"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.PowerPoint_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.pptim"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="2"
            Column="0"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Word"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="2"
            Column="2"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Excel_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Excel"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="2"
            Column="4"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="c5e2524a-ea46-4f67-841f-6a9465d9d515_cw5n1h2txyewy!App"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="4"
            Column="0"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="microsoft.microsoftskydrive_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="4"
            Column="2"/>
        <start:Tile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftPowerBIForWindows_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.MicrosoftPowerBIForWindows"
            Size="2x2"
            Row="4"
            Column="4"/>
        </start:Group>
      </defaultlayout:StartLayout>
    </StartLayoutCollection>
  </DefaultLayoutOverride>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```

<span id="edge" />
## Example: Start layout that includes a Microsoft Edge link

This example shows a link to a website and a link to a .pdf file. The secondary tile for Microsoft Edge uses a 150 x 150 pixel icon.

```xml
<LayoutModificationTemplate Version="1" xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification">
  <LayoutOptions StartTileGroupCellWidth="8" />
  <DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <StartLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:StartLayout GroupCellWidth="8" xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout">
        <start:Group Name="" xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout">
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.PowerPoint_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.pptim"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="0"
              Column="0"/>
          <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Word"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="0"
              Column="2"/>
          <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Excel_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Excel"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="0"
              Column="4"/>
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="2"
              Column="0"/>
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="microsoft.microsoftskydrive_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
              Size="2x2" 
             Row="2"
             Column="2"/>   
  <start:SecondaryTile
            AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
           TileID="2678823080"
           DisplayName="Bing"
           Arguments="https://www.bing.com/"
           Square150x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///"
           Wide310x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///"
           ShowNameOnSquare150x150Logo="true"
           ShowNameOnWide310x150Logo="false"
           BackgroundColor="#ffe9e7e7"
           ForegroundText="dark"
           Size="2x2"
           Column="4"
           Row="2"  />
    <start:Tile
              AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Windows.Photos_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App"
              Size="2x2"
              Row="4"
              Column="0"/>
    <start:SecondaryTile
             AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge"
             TileID="6153963000"
             DisplayName="cstrtqbiology.pdf"
             Arguments="-contentTile -formatVersion 0x00000003 -pinnedTimeLow 0x45b7376e -pinnedTimeHigh 0x01d2356c -securityFlags 0x00000000 -tileType 0x00000000 -url 0x0000003a https://www.ada.gov/regs2010/2010ADAStandards/Guidance_2010ADAStandards.pdf"
             Square150x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///ms-appx:///Assets/MicrosoftEdgeSquare150x150.png"
             Wide310x150LogoUri="ms-appx:///" 
             ShowNameOnSquare150x150Logo="true"
             ShowNameOnWide310x150Logo="false"
             BackgroundColor="#ff4e4248"
             Size="4x2" 
             Row="4"
             Column="2"/>
        </start:Group>
      </defaultlayout:StartLayout>
    </StartLayoutCollection>
  </DefaultLayoutOverride>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```

>[!NOTE]
>The default value for `ForegroundText` is light; you don't need to include `ForegroundText` in your XML unless you're changing the value to dark.

## More information

- [Blog post: Changing Surface Hub’s Start Menu](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/y0av/2018/02/13/47/)
