devices/surface-hub/TOC.md, before:

# [Microsoft Surface Hub](index.md)
## [What's new in Windows 10, version 1703 for Surface Hub?](surfacehub-whats-new-1703.md)
## [Differences between Surface Hub and Windows 10 Enterprise](differences-between-surface-hub-and-windows-10-enterprise.md)
## [Prepare your environment for Microsoft Surface Hub](prepare-your-environment-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Surface Hub Site Readiness Guide](surface-hub-site-readiness-guide.md)
### [Physically install Microsoft Surface Hub](physically-install-your-surface-hub-device.md)
### [Create and test a device account](create-and-test-a-device-account-surface-hub.md)
#### [Online deployment](online-deployment-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [On-premises deployment (single forest)](on-premises-deployment-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [On-premises deployment (multiple forests)](on-premises-deployment-surface-hub-multi-forest.md)
#### [Hybrid deployment](hybrid-deployment-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [Online or hybrid deployment using Skype Hybrid Voice environment](skype-hybrid-voice.md)
#### [Create a device account using UI](create-a-device-account-using-office-365.md)
#### [Microsoft Exchange properties](exchange-properties-for-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [Applying ActiveSync policies to device accounts](apply-activesync-policies-for-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [Password management](password-management-for-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
### [Create provisioning packages](provisioning-packages-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Admin group management](admin-group-management-for-surface-hub.md)
## [Set up Microsoft Surface Hub](set-up-your-surface-hub.md)
### [Setup worksheet](setup-worksheet-surface-hub.md)
### [First-run program](first-run-program-surface-hub.md)
## [Manage Microsoft Surface Hub](manage-surface-hub.md)
### [Remote Surface Hub management](remote-surface-hub-management.md)
#### [Manage settings with an MDM provider](manage-settings-with-mdm-for-surface-hub.md)
#### [Monitor your Surface Hub](monitor-surface-hub.md)
#### [Windows updates](manage-windows-updates-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Manage Surface Hub settings](manage-surface-hub-settings.md)
#### [Local management for Surface Hub settings](local-management-surface-hub-settings.md)
#### [Accessibility](accessibility-surface-hub.md)
#### [Change the Surface Hub device account](change-surface-hub-device-account.md)
#### [Device reset](device-reset-surface-hub.md)
#### [Use fully qualified domain name with Surface Hub](use-fully-qualified-domain-name-surface-hub.md)
#### [Wireless network management](wireless-network-management-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Install apps on your Surface Hub](install-apps-on-surface-hub.md)
### [Configure Surface Hub Start menu](surface-hub-start-menu.md)
### [Set up and use Microsoft Whiteboard](whiteboard-collaboration.md) 
### [End a Surface Hub meeting with End session](i-am-done-finishing-your-surface-hub-meeting.md)
### [Sign in to Surface Hub with Microsoft Authenticator](surface-hub-authenticator-app.md)
### [Save your BitLocker key](save-bitlocker-key-surface-hub.md)
### [Connect other devices and display with Surface Hub](connect-and-display-with-surface-hub.md)
### [Miracast on existing wireless network or LAN](miracast-over-infrastructure.md)
### [Enable 802.1x wired authentication](enable-8021x-wired-authentication.md)
### [Using a room control system](use-room-control-system-with-surface-hub.md)
### [Implement Quality of Service on Surface Hub](surface-hub-qos.md)
### [Using the Surface Hub Recovery Tool](surface-hub-recovery-tool.md)
### [Surface Hub SSD replacement](surface-hub-ssd-replacement.md)
## [PowerShell for Surface Hub](appendix-a-powershell-scripts-for-surface-hub.md)
## [How Surface Hub addresses Wi-Fi Direct security issues](surface-hub-wifi-direct.md)
## [Top support solutions for Surface Hub](support-solutions-surface-hub.md)
## [Troubleshoot Microsoft Surface Hub](troubleshoot-surface-hub.md)
## [Troubleshoot Miracast on Surface Hub](miracast-troubleshooting.md)
## [Useful downloads for Surface Hub administrators](surface-hub-downloads.md)
## [Technical information for 55” Microsoft Surface Hub](surface-hub-technical-55.md)
## [Technical information for 84” Microsoft Surface Hub ](surface-hub-technical-84.md)
## [Change history for Surface Hub](change-history-surface-hub.md)

Commit message:

Update for topics created through CI 102687, 102689, 102691-7

devices/surface-hub/TOC.md, after:

# [Microsoft Surface Hub](index.md)
## [What's new in Windows 10, version 1703 for Surface Hub?](surfacehub-whats-new-1703.md)
## [Differences between Surface Hub and Windows 10 Enterprise](differences-between-surface-hub-and-windows-10-enterprise.md)
## [Prepare your environment for Microsoft Surface Hub](prepare-your-environment-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Surface Hub Site Readiness Guide](surface-hub-site-readiness-guide.md)
### [Physically install Microsoft Surface Hub](physically-install-your-surface-hub-device.md)
### [Create and test a device account](create-and-test-a-device-account-surface-hub.md)
#### [Online deployment](online-deployment-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [On-premises deployment (single forest)](on-premises-deployment-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [On-premises deployment (multiple forests)](on-premises-deployment-surface-hub-multi-forest.md)
#### [Hybrid deployment](hybrid-deployment-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [Online or hybrid deployment using Skype Hybrid Voice environment](skype-hybrid-voice.md)
#### [Create a device account using UI](create-a-device-account-using-office-365.md)
#### [Microsoft Exchange properties](exchange-properties-for-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [Applying ActiveSync policies to device accounts](apply-activesync-policies-for-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
#### [Password management](password-management-for-surface-hub-device-accounts.md)
### [Create provisioning packages](provisioning-packages-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Admin group management](admin-group-management-for-surface-hub.md)
## [Set up Microsoft Surface Hub](set-up-your-surface-hub.md)
### [Setup worksheet](setup-worksheet-surface-hub.md)
### [First-run program](first-run-program-surface-hub.md)
## [Manage Microsoft Surface Hub](manage-surface-hub.md)
### [Remote Surface Hub management](remote-surface-hub-management.md)
#### [Manage settings with an MDM provider](manage-settings-with-mdm-for-surface-hub.md)
#### [Monitor your Surface Hub](monitor-surface-hub.md)
#### [Windows updates](manage-windows-updates-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Manage Surface Hub settings](manage-surface-hub-settings.md)
#### [Local management for Surface Hub settings](local-management-surface-hub-settings.md)
#### [Accessibility](accessibility-surface-hub.md)
#### [Change the Surface Hub device account](change-surface-hub-device-account.md)
#### [Device reset](device-reset-surface-hub.md)
#### [Use fully qualified domain name with Surface Hub](use-fully-qualified-domain-name-surface-hub.md)
#### [Wireless network management](wireless-network-management-for-surface-hub.md)
### [Install apps on your Surface Hub](install-apps-on-surface-hub.md)
### [Configure Surface Hub Start menu](surface-hub-start-menu.md)
### [Set up and use Microsoft Whiteboard](whiteboard-collaboration.md) 
### [End a Surface Hub meeting with End session](i-am-done-finishing-your-surface-hub-meeting.md)
### [Sign in to Surface Hub with Microsoft Authenticator](surface-hub-authenticator-app.md)
### [Save your BitLocker key](save-bitlocker-key-surface-hub.md)
### [Connect other devices and display with Surface Hub](connect-and-display-with-surface-hub.md)
### [Miracast on existing wireless network or LAN](miracast-over-infrastructure.md)
### [Enable 802.1x wired authentication](enable-8021x-wired-authentication.md)
### [Using a room control system](use-room-control-system-with-surface-hub.md)
### [Implement Quality of Service on Surface Hub](surface-hub-qos.md)
### [Using the Surface Hub Recovery Tool](surface-hub-recovery-tool.md)
### [Surface Hub SSD replacement](surface-hub-ssd-replacement.md)
## [PowerShell for Surface Hub](appendix-a-powershell-scripts-for-surface-hub.md)
## [How Surface Hub addresses Wi-Fi Direct security issues](surface-hub-wifi-direct.md)
## [Top support solutions for Surface Hub](support-solutions-surface-hub.md)
## [Troubleshoot Microsoft Surface Hub](troubleshoot-surface-hub.md)
## [Surface Hub Update History](surface-hub-update-history.md)
## [Known issues and additional information about Microsoft Surface Hub](known-issues-and-additional-info-about-surface-hub.md)
## [How to use cloud recovery for BitLocker on a Surface Hub](use-cloud-recovery-for-bitlocker-on-surfacehub.md)
## [Using the Surface Hub Hardware Diagnostic Tool to test a device account](use-surface-hub-diagnostic-test-device-account.md)
## [Surface Hub Miracast channels 149-165 not supported in Europe, Japan, Israel](surfacehub-miracast-not-supported-europe-japan-israel.md)
## [What to do if the Connect app in Surface Hub exits unexpectedly](connect-app-in-surface-hub-unexpectedly-exits.md)
## [Surface Hub may install updates and restart outside maintenance hours](surface-hub-installs-updates-and-restarts-outside-maintenance-hours.md)
## [General Data Privacy Regulation and Surface Hub](general-data-privacy-regulation-and-surface-hub.md)
## [Troubleshoot Miracast on Surface Hub](miracast-troubleshooting.md)
## [Useful downloads for Surface Hub administrators](surface-hub-downloads.md)
## [Technical information for 55” Microsoft Surface Hub](surface-hub-technical-55.md)
## [Technical information for 84” Microsoft Surface Hub ](surface-hub-technical-84.md)
## [Change history for Surface Hub](change-history-surface-hub.md)
