windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/attack-surface-reduction-exploit-guard.md, before:

---
title: Use attack surface reduction rules to prevent malware infection
description: ASR rules can help prevent exploits from using apps and scripts to infect machines with malware
keywords: Attack surface reduction, hips, host intrusion prevention system, protection rules, anti-exploit, antiexploit, exploit, infection prevention
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: andreabichsel
ms.author: v-anbic
---

# Reduce attack surfaces with attack surface reduction rules 

**Applies to:**

- Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)

Attack surface reduction rules help prevent actions and apps that malware often uses to infect computers. You can set attack surface reduction rules for computers running Windows 10 or Windows Server 2019. 

To use ASR rules, you need either a Windows 10 Enterprise E3 or E5 license. We recommend an E5 license so you can take advantage of the advanced monitoring and reporting capabilities available in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP). These advanced capabilities aren't available with an E3 license, but you can develop your own monitoring and reporting tools to use in conjuction with ASR rules.

Attack surface reduction rules work best with [Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection](../windows-defender-atp/windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md), which gives you detailed reporting into events and blocks as part of the usual [alert investigation scenarios](../windows-defender-atp/investigate-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md).

Attack surface reduction rules each target specific behaviors that malware and malicious apps typically use to infect computers, including:

- Executable files and scripts used in Office apps or web mail that attempt to download or run files
- Scripts that are obfuscated or otherwise suspicious
- Behaviors that apps undertake that are not usually initiated during normal day-to-day work

When a rule triggers, the Action Center displays a notification. You can [customize the notification](customize-attack-surface-reduction.md#customize-the-notification) with your company details and contact information.

You can use [audit mode](audit-windows-defender-exploit-guard.md) to evaluate how attack surface reduction rules would impact your organization if they were enabled.

## Attack surface reduction rules

The following sections describe what each rule does. Each rule is identified by a rule GUID, as in the following table:

Rule name | GUID
-|-
Block executable content from email client and webmail | BE9BA2D9-53EA-4CDC-84E5-9B1EEEE46550
Block all Office applications from creating child processes | D4F940AB-401B-4EFC-AADC-AD5F3C50688A
Block Office applications from creating executable content  | 3B576869-A4EC-4529-8536-B80A7769E899
Block Office applications from injecting code into other processes | 75668C1F-73B5-4CF0-BB93-3ECF5CB7CC84
Block JavaScript or VBScript from launching downloaded executable content | D3E037E1-3EB8-44C8-A917-57927947596D
Block execution of potentially obfuscated scripts  | 5BEB7EFE-FD9A-4556-801D-275E5FFC04CC
Block Win32 API calls from Office macro | 92E97FA1-2EDF-4476-BDD6-9DD0B4DDDC7B
Block executable files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria | 01443614-cd74-433a-b99e-2ecdc07bfc25
Use advanced protection against ransomware | c1db55ab-c21a-4637-bb3f-a12568109d35
Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem (lsass.exe) | 9e6c4e1f-7d60-472f-ba1a-a39ef669e4b2
Block process creations originating from PSExec and WMI commands | d1e49aac-8f56-4280-b9ba-993a6d77406c
Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB | b2b3f03d-6a65-4f7b-a9c7-1c7ef74a9ba4
Block Office communication applications from creating child processes | 26190899-1602-49e8-8b27-eb1d0a1ce869
Block Adobe Reader from creating child processes | 7674ba52-37eb-4a4f-a9a1-f0f9a1619a2c

The rules apply to the following Office apps:

- Microsoft Word
- Microsoft Excel
- Microsoft PowerPoint
- Microsoft OneNote

Except where specified, ASR rules do not apply to any other Office apps.

### Rule: Block executable content from email client and webmail

This rule blocks the following file types from being run or launched from an email seen in either Microsoft Outlook or webmail (such as Gmail.com or Outlook.com):

- Executable files (such as .exe, .dll, or .scr) 
- Script files (such as a PowerShell .ps, VisualBasic .vbs, or JavaScript .js file)
- Script archive files

Intune name: Execution of executable content (exe, dll, ps, js, vbs, etc.) dropped from email (webmail/mail client) (no exceptions)

SCCM name: Block executable content from email client and webmail

GUID: BE9BA2D9-53EA-4CDC-84E5-9B1EEEE46550

### Rule: Block all Office applications from creating child processes

Office apps will not be allowed to create child processes. This includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Access.

This is a typical malware behavior, especially for macro-based attacks that attempt to use Office apps to launch or download malicious executables.

Intune name: Office apps launching child processes

SCCM name: Block Office application from creating child processes

GUID: D4F940AB-401B-4EFC-AADC-AD5F3C50688A

### Rule: Block Office applications from creating executable content

This rule targets typical behaviors used by suspicious and malicious add-ons and scripts (extensions) that create or launch executable files. This is a typical malware technique.

Extensions will be blocked from being used by Office apps. Typically these extensions use the Windows Scripting Host (.wsh files) to run scripts that automate certain tasks or provide user-created add-on features.

Intune name: Office apps/macros creating executable content

SCCM name: Block Office applications from creating executable content

GUID: 3B576869-A4EC-4529-8536-B80A7769E899

### Rule: Block Office applications from injecting code into other processes

Office apps, such as Word, Excel, or PowerPoint, will not be able to inject code into other processes. 

This is typically used by malware to run malicious code in an attempt to hide the activity from antivirus scanning engines.

Intune name: Office apps injecting code into other processes (no exceptions)

SCCM name: Block Office applications from injecting code into other processes

GUID: 75668C1F-73B5-4CF0-BB93-3ECF5CB7CC84

### Rule: Block JavaScript or VBScript From launching downloaded executable content

JavaScript and VBScript scripts can be used by malware to launch other malicious apps. 

This rule prevents these scripts from being allowed to launch apps, thus preventing malicious use of the scripts to spread malware and infect machines.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>File and folder exclusions do not apply to this ASR rule.

Intune name: js/vbs executing payload downloaded from Internet (no exceptions)

SCCM name: Block JavaScript or VBScript from launching downloaded executable content

GUID: D3E037E1-3EB8-44C8-A917-57927947596D

### Rule: Block execution of potentially obfuscated scripts

Malware and other threats can attempt to obfuscate or hide their malicious code in some script files. 

This rule prevents scripts that appear to be obfuscated from running. 

Intune name: Obfuscated js/vbs/ps/macro code

SCCM name: Block execution of potentially obfuscated scripts.

GUID: 5BEB7EFE-FD9A-4556-801D-275E5FFC04CC

### Rule: Block Win32 API calls from Office macro

Malware can use macro code in Office files to import and load Win32 DLLs, which can then be used to make API calls to allow further infection throughout the system.

This rule attempts to block Office files that contain macro code that is capable of importing Win32 DLLs. 

Intune name: Win32 imports from Office macro code

SCCM name: Block Win32 API calls from Office macros

GUID: 92E97FA1-2EDF-4476-BDD6-9DD0B4DDDC7B

### Rule: Block executable files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria
 
This rule blocks the following file types from being run or launched unless they meet prevalence or age criteria set by admins, or they are in a trusted list or exclusion list:
 
- Executable files (such as .exe, .dll, or .scr) 

>[!NOTE]
>You must [enable cloud-delivered protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/enable-cloud-protection-windows-defender-antivirus) to use this rule.

Intune name: Executables that don't meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria

SCCM name: Block executable files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria

GUID: 01443614-cd74-433a-b99e-2ecdc07bfc25
 
### Rule: Use advanced protection against ransomware
 
This rule provides an extra layer of protection against ransomware. Executable files that enter the system will be scanned to determine whether they are trustworthy. If the files exhibit characteristics that closely resemble ransomware, they are blocked from being run or launched, provided they are not already in the trusted list or exception list.

>[!NOTE]
>You must [enable cloud-delivered protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/enable-cloud-protection-windows-defender-antivirus) to use this rule.

Intune name: Advanced ransomware protection

SCCM name: Use advanced protection against ransomware

GUID: c1db55ab-c21a-4637-bb3f-a12568109d35
 
### Rule: Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem (lsass.exe)
 
Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS) authenticates users who log in to a Windows computer. Windows Defender Credential Guard in Windows 10 normally prevents attempts to extract credentials from LSASS. However, some organizations can't enable Credential Guard on all of their computers because of compatibility issues with custom smartcard drivers or other programs that load into the Local Security Authority (LSA). In these cases, attackers can use tools like Mimikatz to scrape cleartext passwords and NTLM hashes from LSASS. This rule helps mitigate that risk by locking down LSASS.

 >[!NOTE]
 >Some apps are coded to enumerate all running processes and to attempt opening them with exhaustive permissions. This results in the app accessing LSASS even when it's not necessary. ASR will deny the app's process open action and log the details to the security event log. Entry in the event log for access denial by itself is not an indication of the presence of a malicious threat.

Intune name: Flag credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem

SCCM name: Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem

GUID: 9e6c4e1f-7d60-472f-ba1a-a39ef669e4b2

### Rule: Block process creations originating from PSExec and WMI commands
 
This rule blocks processes through PsExec and WMI commands from running, to prevent remote code execution that can spread malware attacks.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>File and folder exclusions do not apply to this ASR rule.

>[!WARNING]
>[Only use this rule if you are managing your devices with [Intune](https://docs.microsoft.com/intune) or another MDM solution. This rule is incompatible with management through [System Center Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm) because this rule blocks WMI commands that the Configuration Manager client uses to function correctly.]

Intune name: Process creation from PSExec and WMI commands

SCCM name: Not applicable

GUID: d1e49aac-8f56-4280-b9ba-993a6d77406c
 
### Rule: Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB
 
With this rule, admins can prevent unsigned or untrusted executable files from running from USB removable drives, including SD cards. Blocked file types include:
 
- Executable files (such as .exe, .dll, or .scr) 
- Script files (such as a PowerShell .ps, VisualBasic .vbs, or JavaScript .js file)

Intune name: Untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB

SCCM name: Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB

GUID: b2b3f03d-6a65-4f7b-a9c7-1c7ef74a9ba4

### Rule: Block Office communication applications from creating child processes

Office communication apps will not be allowed to create child processes. This includes Outlook.

This is a typical malware behavior, especially for macro-based attacks that attempt to use Office apps to launch or download malicious executables.

Intune name: Not applicable

SCCM name: Not applicable

GUID: 26190899-1602-49e8-8b27-eb1d0a1ce869

### Rule: Block Adobe Reader from creating child processes

This rule blocks Adobe Reader from creating child processes.

Intune name: Not applicable

SCCM name: Not applicable

GUID: 7674ba52-37eb-4a4f-a9a1-f0f9a1619a2c

## Related topics

- [Enable attack surface reduction rules](enable-attack-surface-reduction.md)
- [Evaluate attack surface reduction](evaluate-attack-surface-reduction.md)

Commit message:

Added more description to Outlook and Adobe asr rules.

windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/attack-surface-reduction-exploit-guard.md, after:

---
title: Use attack surface reduction rules to prevent malware infection
description: ASR rules can help prevent exploits from using apps and scripts to infect machines with malware
keywords: Attack surface reduction, hips, host intrusion prevention system, protection rules, anti-exploit, antiexploit, exploit, infection prevention
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: andreabichsel
ms.author: v-anbic
---

# Reduce attack surfaces with attack surface reduction rules 

**Applies to:**

- [Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)](https://wincom.blob.core.windows.net/documents/Windows10_Commercial_Comparison.pdf)

Attack surface reduction rules help prevent actions and apps that malware often uses to infect computers. You can set attack surface reduction rules for computers running Windows 10 or Windows Server 2019. 

To use ASR rules, you need either a Windows 10 Enterprise E3 or E5 license. We recommend an E5 license so you can take advantage of the advanced monitoring and reporting capabilities available in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP). These advanced capabilities aren't available with an E3 license, but you can develop your own monitoring and reporting tools to use in conjuction with ASR rules.

Attack surface reduction rules work best with [Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection](../windows-defender-atp/windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md), which gives you detailed reporting into events and blocks as part of the usual [alert investigation scenarios](../windows-defender-atp/investigate-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md).

Attack surface reduction rules each target specific behaviors that malware and malicious apps typically use to infect computers, including:

- Executable files and scripts used in Office apps or web mail that attempt to download or run files
- Scripts that are obfuscated or otherwise suspicious
- Behaviors that apps undertake that are not usually initiated during normal day-to-day work

When a rule triggers, the Action Center displays a notification. You can [customize the notification](customize-attack-surface-reduction.md#customize-the-notification) with your company details and contact information.

You can use [audit mode](audit-windows-defender-exploit-guard.md) to evaluate how attack surface reduction rules would impact your organization if they were enabled.

## Attack surface reduction rules

The following sections describe what each rule does. Each rule is identified by a rule GUID, as in the following table:

Rule name | GUID
-|-
Block executable content from email client and webmail | BE9BA2D9-53EA-4CDC-84E5-9B1EEEE46550
Block all Office applications from creating child processes | D4F940AB-401B-4EFC-AADC-AD5F3C50688A
Block Office applications from creating executable content  | 3B576869-A4EC-4529-8536-B80A7769E899
Block Office applications from injecting code into other processes | 75668C1F-73B5-4CF0-BB93-3ECF5CB7CC84
Block JavaScript or VBScript from launching downloaded executable content | D3E037E1-3EB8-44C8-A917-57927947596D
Block execution of potentially obfuscated scripts  | 5BEB7EFE-FD9A-4556-801D-275E5FFC04CC
Block Win32 API calls from Office macro | 92E97FA1-2EDF-4476-BDD6-9DD0B4DDDC7B
Block executable files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria | 01443614-cd74-433a-b99e-2ecdc07bfc25
Use advanced protection against ransomware | c1db55ab-c21a-4637-bb3f-a12568109d35
Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem (lsass.exe) | 9e6c4e1f-7d60-472f-ba1a-a39ef669e4b2
Block process creations originating from PSExec and WMI commands | d1e49aac-8f56-4280-b9ba-993a6d77406c
Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB | b2b3f03d-6a65-4f7b-a9c7-1c7ef74a9ba4
Block Office communication application from creating child processes | 26190899-1602-49e8-8b27-eb1d0a1ce869
Block Adobe Reader from creating child processes | 7674ba52-37eb-4a4f-a9a1-f0f9a1619a2c

The rules apply to the following Office apps:

- Microsoft Word
- Microsoft Excel
- Microsoft PowerPoint
- Microsoft OneNote

Except where specified, ASR rules do not apply to any other Office apps.

### Rule: Block executable content from email client and webmail

This rule blocks the following file types from being run or launched from an email seen in either Microsoft Outlook or webmail (such as Gmail.com or Outlook.com):

- Executable files (such as .exe, .dll, or .scr) 
- Script files (such as a PowerShell .ps, VisualBasic .vbs, or JavaScript .js file)
- Script archive files

Intune name: Execution of executable content (exe, dll, ps, js, vbs, etc.) dropped from email (webmail/mail client) (no exceptions)

SCCM name: Block executable content from email client and webmail

GUID: BE9BA2D9-53EA-4CDC-84E5-9B1EEEE46550

### Rule: Block all Office applications from creating child processes

Office apps will not be allowed to create child processes. This includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, and Access.

This is a typical malware behavior, especially for macro-based attacks that attempt to use Office apps to launch or download malicious executables.

Intune name: Office apps launching child processes

SCCM name: Block Office application from creating child processes

GUID: D4F940AB-401B-4EFC-AADC-AD5F3C50688A

### Rule: Block Office applications from creating executable content

This rule targets typical behaviors used by suspicious and malicious add-ons and scripts (extensions) that create or launch executable files. This is a typical malware technique.

Extensions will be blocked from being used by Office apps. Typically these extensions use the Windows Scripting Host (.wsh files) to run scripts that automate certain tasks or provide user-created add-on features.

Intune name: Office apps/macros creating executable content

SCCM name: Block Office applications from creating executable content

GUID: 3B576869-A4EC-4529-8536-B80A7769E899

### Rule: Block Office applications from injecting code into other processes

Office apps, including Word, Excel, or PowerPoint, will not be able to inject code into other processes. 

This is typically used by malware to run malicious code in an attempt to hide the activity from antivirus scanning engines.

Intune name: Office apps injecting code into other processes (no exceptions)

SCCM name: Block Office applications from injecting code into other processes

GUID: 75668C1F-73B5-4CF0-BB93-3ECF5CB7CC84

### Rule: Block JavaScript or VBScript From launching downloaded executable content

JavaScript and VBScript scripts can be used by malware to launch other malicious apps. 

This rule prevents these scripts from being allowed to launch apps, thus preventing malicious use of the scripts to spread malware and infect machines.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>File and folder exclusions do not apply to this ASR rule.

Intune name: js/vbs executing payload downloaded from Internet (no exceptions)

SCCM name: Block JavaScript or VBScript from launching downloaded executable content

GUID: D3E037E1-3EB8-44C8-A917-57927947596D

### Rule: Block execution of potentially obfuscated scripts

Malware and other threats can attempt to obfuscate or hide their malicious code in some script files. 

This rule prevents scripts that appear to be obfuscated from running. 

Intune name: Obfuscated js/vbs/ps/macro code

SCCM name: Block execution of potentially obfuscated scripts.

GUID: 5BEB7EFE-FD9A-4556-801D-275E5FFC04CC

### Rule: Block Win32 API calls from Office macro

Malware can use macro code in Office files to import and load Win32 DLLs, which can then be used to make API calls to allow further infection throughout the system.

This rule attempts to block Office files that contain macro code that is capable of importing Win32 DLLs. This includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote.

Intune name: Win32 imports from Office macro code

SCCM name: Block Win32 API calls from Office macros

GUID: 92E97FA1-2EDF-4476-BDD6-9DD0B4DDDC7B

### Rule: Block executable files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria
 
This rule blocks the following file types from being run or launched unless they meet prevalence or age criteria set by admins, or they are in a trusted list or exclusion list:
 
- Executable files (such as .exe, .dll, or .scr) 

>[!NOTE]
>You must [enable cloud-delivered protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/enable-cloud-protection-windows-defender-antivirus) to use this rule.

Intune name: Executables that don't meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria

SCCM name: Block executable files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criteria

GUID: 01443614-cd74-433a-b99e-2ecdc07bfc25
 
### Rule: Use advanced protection against ransomware
 
This rule provides an extra layer of protection against ransomware. Executable files that enter the system will be scanned to determine whether they are trustworthy. If the files exhibit characteristics that closely resemble ransomware, they are blocked from being run or launched, provided they are not already in the trusted list or exception list.

>[!NOTE]
>You must [enable cloud-delivered protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/enable-cloud-protection-windows-defender-antivirus) to use this rule.

Intune name: Advanced ransomware protection

SCCM name: Use advanced protection against ransomware

GUID: c1db55ab-c21a-4637-bb3f-a12568109d35
 
### Rule: Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem (lsass.exe)
 
Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS) authenticates users who log in to a Windows computer. Windows Defender Credential Guard in Windows 10 normally prevents attempts to extract credentials from LSASS. However, some organizations can't enable Credential Guard on all of their computers because of compatibility issues with custom smartcard drivers or other programs that load into the Local Security Authority (LSA). In these cases, attackers can use tools like Mimikatz to scrape cleartext passwords and NTLM hashes from LSASS. This rule helps mitigate that risk by locking down LSASS.

 >[!NOTE]
 >Some apps are coded to enumerate all running processes and to attempt opening them with exhaustive permissions. This results in the app accessing LSASS even when it's not necessary. ASR will deny the app's process open action and log the details to the security event log. Entry in the event log for access denial by itself is not an indication of the presence of a malicious threat.

Intune name: Flag credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem

SCCM name: Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem

GUID: 9e6c4e1f-7d60-472f-ba1a-a39ef669e4b2

### Rule: Block process creations originating from PSExec and WMI commands
 
This rule blocks processes through PsExec and WMI commands from running, to prevent remote code execution that can spread malware attacks.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>File and folder exclusions do not apply to this ASR rule.

>[!WARNING]
>[Only use this rule if you are managing your devices with [Intune](https://docs.microsoft.com/intune) or another MDM solution. This rule is incompatible with management through [System Center Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/sccm) because this rule blocks WMI commands that the Configuration Manager client uses to function correctly.]

Intune name: Process creation from PSExec and WMI commands

SCCM name: Not applicable

GUID: d1e49aac-8f56-4280-b9ba-993a6d77406c
 
### Rule: Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB
 
With this rule, admins can prevent unsigned or untrusted executable files from running from USB removable drives, including SD cards. Blocked file types include:
 
- Executable files (such as .exe, .dll, or .scr) 
- Script files (such as a PowerShell .ps, VisualBasic .vbs, or JavaScript .js file)

Intune name: Untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB

SCCM name: Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB

GUID: b2b3f03d-6a65-4f7b-a9c7-1c7ef74a9ba4

### Rule: Block Office communication application from creating child processes

This rule prevents Outlook from creating child processes, including launching an app when a user double-clicks an attachment. 

This is a typical malware behavior, especially for macro-based attacks that attempt to use Outlook to launch or download malicious executables.

>[!NOTE]
>This rule applies to Outlook only.

Intune name: Not applicable

SCCM name: Not applicable

GUID: 26190899-1602-49e8-8b27-eb1d0a1ce869

### Rule: Block Adobe Reader from creating child processes

This rule blocks Adobe Reader from creating child processes.

This helps protect against heap-based buffer overflow vulnerabilities in PDF files, which attackers could use to launch malicious code. It also mitigates against potential JavaScript and Adobe Flash engine vulnerabilities that could allow attackers to insert and execute malicious code in PDF documents.

Intune name: Not applicable

SCCM name: Not applicable

GUID: 7674ba52-37eb-4a4f-a9a1-f0f9a1619a2c

## Related topics

- [Enable attack surface reduction rules](enable-attack-surface-reduction.md)
- [Evaluate attack surface reduction](evaluate-attack-surface-reduction.md)
