---
title: Deploy, manage, and report on Windows Defender Antivirus
description: 
keywords: 
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
localizationpriority: medium
author: iaanw
---

# Deploy, manage, and report on Windows Defender Antivirus

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10

**Audience**

- IT administrators

You can deploy, manage, and report on Windows Defender Antivirus in a number of ways. 

The following matrix illustrates how each function can be managed or accessed. The topics in this section provide links or describe how to use each product:
- To deploy or enable the Windows Defender Antivirus protection client on endpoints or servers
- To manage and report on Windows Defender Antivirus protection, including managing product and protection updates
- To report on Windows Defender Antivirus protection


> [!IMPORTANT]
> In most cases, Windows 10 will disable Windows Defender Antivirus if it finds another antivirus product running and up-to-date. You must disable or uninstall third-party antivirus products before Windows Defender Antivirus will be functioning. If you re-enable or install third-part antivirus products, then Windows 10 will automatically disable Windows Defender Antivirus.


When you enable endpoint protection for your clients, it will install an additional management layer on Windows Defender to manage the in-box Windows Defender agent. While the client user interface will still appear as Windows Defender, the management layer for Endpoint Protection will be listed in the **Add/Remove Programs** control panel, though it will appear as if the full product is installed.

## Manage Windows Defender endpoints through Active Directory and WSUS

All Windows 10 endpoints are installed with Windows Defender and include support for management through:
-   Active Directory
-   WSUS

You can use the Active Directory to configure the settings; Group policies can be used for centralized configuration and enforcement of many Windows Defender settings including client user interface, scan settings, and exclusions.
WSUS can be used to view basic update compliance and deploy updates manually or through automatic rules.

Note that System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager SP1, System Center 2012 Configuration Manager SP2, and Microsoft Intune can provide centralized management of Windows Defender, including:

-   Settings management
-   Definition update management
-   Alerts and alert management
-   Reports and reporting

When you enable *Endpoint Protection* on your clients, it will install an additional management layer on Windows Defender to manage the in-box Windows Defender agent. While the client user interface will still appear as Windows Defender, the management layer for System Center Endpoint Protection or Intune will be listed in the **Add/Remove Programs** control panel, though it will appear as if the full product is installed. Learn more about managing *Endpoint Protection*:

-   [Help secure Windows PCs with Endpoint Protection for Microsoft Intune](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/dn646970.aspx)
-   [Endpoint Protection in Configuration Manager](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh508760.aspx)

Read more about System Center Configuration Manager in [Introduction to Endpoint Protection in Configuration Manager](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh508781.aspx).
> **Important:**  You must be licensed to use *Endpoint Protection* to manage clients in your Configuration Manager hierarchy.