windows/keep-secure/WDAV-working/command-line-arguments-windows-defender-antivirus.md, before:

---
title: Learn how to run a scan from command line in Windows Defender (Windows 10)
description: Windows Defender utility enables IT professionals to use command line to run antivirus scans.
keywords: run windows defender scan, run antivirus scan from command line, run windows defender scan from command line, mpcmdrun, defender
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
localizationpriority: medium
author: mjcaparas
---

# Run a Windows Defender scan from the command line

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10

IT professionals can use a command-line utility to run a Windows Defender scan. 

The utility is available in _%Program Files%\Windows Defender\MpCmdRun.exe_.

This utility can be handy when you want to automate the use of Windows Defender. 

**To run a quick scan from the command line**

1. Click **Start**, type **cmd**, and press **Enter**.
2. Navigate to _%ProgramFiles%\Windows Defender_ and enter the following command, and press **Enter**:

```
C:\Program Files\Windows Defender\mpcmdrun.exe -scan -scantype 1
```
The quick scan will start. When the scan completes, you'll see a message indicating that the scan is finished. 


The utility also provides other commands that you can run:

```
MpCmdRun.exe [command] [-options]
```

Command | Description 
:---|:---
\- ? / -h | Displays all available options for the tool
\-Scan [-ScanType #] [-File <path> [-DisableRemediation] [-BootSectorScan]][-Timeout <days>] | Scans for malicious software
\-Trace  [-Grouping #] [-Level #]| Starts diagnostic tracing
\-GetFiles | Collects support information
\-RemoveDefinitions [-All] | Restores the installed signature definitions to a previous backup copy or to the original default set of signatures
\-AddDynamicSignature [-Path] | Loads a dynamic signature
\-ListAllDynamicSignature [-Path] | Lists the loaded dynamic signatures
\-RemoveDynamicSignature [-SignatureSetID] | Removes a dynamic signature
<br>
The command-line utility provides detailed information on the other commands supported by the tool.

Commit message:

reference, wdo, and parent topics check

windows/keep-secure/WDAV-working/command-line-arguments-windows-defender-antivirus.md, after:

---
title: Use the command line to manage Windows Defender AV
description: Windows Defender AV has a dedicated command-line utility that can run scans and configure protection.
keywords: run windows defender scan, run antivirus scan from command line, run windows defender scan from command line, mpcmdrun, defender
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
localizationpriority: medium
author: iawilt
---


# Use the mpcmdrun.exe command-line tool to configure and manage Windows Defender Antivirus

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10


You can use a dedicated command-line tool to perform various functions in Windows Defender Antivirus. 

This utility can be handy when you want to automate the use of Windows Defender Antivirus. 

The utility is available in _%Program Files%\Windows Defender\MpCmdRun.exe_ and must be run from a command prompt.

> [!NOTE]
> You may need to open an administrator-level version of the command prompt. Right-click the item in the Start menu, click **Run as administrator** and click **Yes** at the permissions prompt.


The utility has the following commands:

```DOS
MpCmdRun.exe [command] [-options]
```

Command | Description 
:---|:---
\- ? **or** -h | Displays all available options for the tool
\-Scan [-ScanType #] [-File <path> [-DisableRemediation] [-BootSectorScan]][-Timeout <days>] | Scans for malicious software
\-Trace  [-Grouping #] [-Level #]| Starts diagnostic tracing
\-GetFiles | Collects support information
\-RemoveDefinitions [-All] | Restores the installed signature definitions to a previous backup copy or to the original default set of signatures
\-AddDynamicSignature [-Path] | Loads a dynamic signature
\-ListAllDynamicSignature [-Path] | Lists the loaded dynamic signatures
\-RemoveDynamicSignature [-SignatureSetID] | Removes a dynamic signature
\-ValidateMapsConnection | Used to validate connection to the [cloud-delivered protection service](configure-network-connections-windows-defender-antivirus.md)




## Related topics

- [Reference topics for management and configuration tools](configuration-management-reference-windows-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Windows Defender Antivirus in Windows 10](windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md)
