windows/keep-secure/WDAV-working/configure-windows-defender-antivirus-features.md, before:

---
title: Configure Windows Defender Antivirus features (Windows 10)
description: You can configure features for Windows Defender Antivirus using Configuration Manager, MDM software (such as Intune), PowerShell, and with Group Policy settings.
keywords: windows defender antivirus, antimalware, security, defender, configure, configuration, Config Manager, System Center Configuration Manager, SCCM, Intune, MDM, mobile device management, GP, group policy, PowerShell
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
localizationpriority: medium
author: iaanw
---

# Configure Windows Defender Antivirus features


**Applies to:**

- Windows 10, version 1703

**Audience**

- Enterprise security administrators

You can configure Windows Defender Antivirus features in a number of ways, including:
 Microsoft Active Directory or Windows Server Update Services (WSUS), apply updates to endpoints, and manage scans using:

-   Group Policy Settings
-   Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)
-   PowerShell









## Related topics

- [Configure Windows Defender in Windows 10](configure-windows-defender-in-windows-10.md)
- [Troubleshoot Windows Defender in Windows 10](troubleshoot-windows-defender-in-windows-10.md)





## Related topics

- [Windows Defender in Windows 10](windows-defender-in-windows-10.md)

Commit message:

reference, wdo, and parent topics check

windows/keep-secure/WDAV-working/configure-windows-defender-antivirus-features.md, after:

---
title: Configure Windows Defender Antivirus features (Windows 10)
description: You can configure features for Windows Defender Antivirus using Configuration Manager, MDM software (such as Intune), PowerShell, and with Group Policy settings.
keywords: windows defender antivirus, antimalware, security, defender, configure, configuration, Config Manager, System Center Configuration Manager, SCCM, Intune, MDM, mobile device management, GP, group policy, PowerShell
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
localizationpriority: medium
author: iaanw
---

# Configure Windows Defender Antivirus features


**Applies to:**

- Windows 10

**Audience**

- Enterprise security administrators

Windows Defender Antivirus can be configured with a number of tools, including:

- Group Policy settings
- System Center Configuration Manager
- PowerShell cmdlets
- Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)
- Microsoft Intune


The following broad categories of features can be configured:

- Cloud-delivered protection
- Always-on real-time protection, including behavioral, heuristic, and machine-learning-based protection
- How end-users interact with the client on individual endpoints

The topics in this section describe how to perform key tasks when configuring Windows Defender AV. Each topic includes instructions for the applicable configuration tool (or tools).

You can also review the [Reference topics for management and configuration tools](configuration-management-reference-windows-defender-antivirus.md) topic for an overview of each tool and links to further help.


## In this section
Topic | Description
:---|:---
[Utilize Microsoft cloud-provided protection in Windows Defender Antivirus](utilize-microsoft-cloud-protection-windows-defender-antivirus.md) | Cloud-delivered protection provides an advanced level of fast, robust antivirus detection
[Configure behavioral, heuristic, and real-time protection](configure-protection-features-windows-defender-antivirus.md)|Enable behavior-based, heuristic, and real-time protection in Windows Defender AV
[Configure end-user interaction with WDAM](configure-end-user-interaction-windows-defender-antivirus.md)|Configure how end-users interact with Windows Defender AV, what notifications they see, and if they can override settings
