devices/surface/ltsb-for-surface.md, before:

---
title: Long-Term Servicing Branch for Surface devices (Surface)
description: LTSB is not supported for general-purpose Surface devices and should be used for specialized devices only.
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.pagetype: surface, devices
ms.sitesec: library
author: jdeckerMS
---

# Long-Term Servicing Branch (LTSB) for Surface devices


General-purpose Surface devices running Long-Term Servicing Branch (LTSB) are not supported. As a general guideline, if a Surface device runs productivity software, such as Microsoft Office, it is a general-purpose device that does not qualify for LTSB and should instead run Current Branch (CB) or Current Branch for Business (CBB). 

>[!NOTE]
>For more information about the servicing branches, see [Overview of Windows as a service](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/manage/waas-overview).

LTSB prevents Surface devices from receiving critical Windows 10 feature updates and certain non-security servicing updates. Customers with poor experiences using Surface devices in the LTSB configuration will be instructed to upgrade to CB or CBB. Furthermore, the Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB edition removes core features of Surface devices, including seamless inking and touch-friendly applications. It does not contain key in-box applications including Microsoft Edge, OneNote, Calendar or Camera. Therefore, productivity is impacted and functionality is limited. LTSB is not supported as a suitable servicing solution for general-purpose Surface devices. 

General-purpose Surface devices are intended to run CB or CBB to receive full servicing and firmware updates and forward compatibility with the introduction of new Surface features. With CB, feature updates are available as soon as Microsoft releases them. Customers in the CBB servicing model receive the same build of Windows 10 as those in CB, at a later date.

Surface devices in specialized scenarios–such as PCs that control medical equipment, point-of-sale systems, and ATMs–may consider the use of LTSB. These special-purpose systems typically perform a single task and do not require feature updates as frequently as other devices in the organization. 





## Related topics

- [Surface TechCenter](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows/surface)

- [Surface for IT pros blog](http://blogs.technet.com/b/surface/)

Commit message:

add surface files back in
change history, deploy, toc, ltsb for surface

devices/surface/ltsb-for-surface.md, after:

---
title: Long-Term Servicing Branch for Surface devices (Surface)
description: LTSB is not supported for general-purpose Surface devices and should be used for specialized devices only.
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.pagetype: surface, devices
ms.sitesec: library
author: jdeckerMS
---

# Long-Term Servicing Branch (LTSB) for Surface devices

>[!WARNING]
>For updated information on this topic, see [Surface device compatibility with Windows 10 Long-Term Servicing Branch](surface-device-compatibility-with-windows-10-ltsb.md). For additional information on this update, see the [Documentation Updates for Surface and Windows 10 LTSB Compatibility](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/surface/2017/04/11/documentation-updates-for-surface-and-windows-10-ltsb-compatibility) post on the Surface Blog for IT Pros.

General-purpose Surface devices running Long-Term Servicing Branch (LTSB) are not supported. As a general guideline, if a Surface device runs productivity software, such as Microsoft Office, it is a general-purpose device that does not qualify for LTSB and should instead run Current Branch (CB) or Current Branch for Business (CBB). 

>[!NOTE]
>For more information about the servicing branches, see [Overview of Windows as a service](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/manage/waas-overview).

LTSB prevents Surface devices from receiving critical Windows 10 feature updates and certain non-security servicing updates. Customers with poor experiences using Surface devices in the LTSB configuration will be instructed to upgrade to CB or CBB. Furthermore, the Windows 10 Enterprise LTSB edition removes core features of Surface devices, including seamless inking and touch-friendly applications. It does not contain key in-box applications including Microsoft Edge, OneNote, Calendar or Camera. Therefore, productivity is impacted and functionality is limited. LTSB is not supported as a suitable servicing solution for general-purpose Surface devices. 

General-purpose Surface devices are intended to run CB or CBB to receive full servicing and firmware updates and forward compatibility with the introduction of new Surface features. With CB, feature updates are available as soon as Microsoft releases them. Customers in the CBB servicing model receive the same build of Windows 10 as those in CB, at a later date.

Surface devices in specialized scenarios–such as PCs that control medical equipment, point-of-sale systems, and ATMs–may consider the use of LTSB. These special-purpose systems typically perform a single task and do not require feature updates as frequently as other devices in the organization. 





## Related topics

- [Surface TechCenter](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows/surface)

- [Surface for IT pros blog](http://blogs.technet.com/b/surface/)
