devices/surface/TOC.md, before:

# [Surface](index.md)

## [Get started](get-started.md)

## Overview
### [Surface Pro Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-pro/tech-specs)
### [Surface Book Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-book/tech-specs)
### [Surface Studio Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-studio/tech-specs)
### [Surface Go Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-go/tech-specs)
### [Surface Laptop 2 Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-laptop/tech-specs)

## Plan
### [Windows Autopilot and Surface devices](windows-autopilot-and-surface-devices.md)
### [Surface device compatibility with Windows 10 Long-Term Servicing Branch](surface-device-compatibility-with-windows-10-ltsc.md)
### [Long-Term Servicing Branch for Surface devices](ltsb-for-surface.md)
### [Wake On LAN for Surface devices](wake-on-lan-for-surface-devices.md)
### [Considerations for Surface and System Center Configuration Manager](considerations-for-surface-and-system-center-configuration-manager.md)
### [Deploy Surface app with Microsoft Store for Business](deploy-surface-app-with-windows-store-for-business.md)
### [Enable PEAP, EAP-FAST, and Cisco LEAP on Surface devices](enable-peap-eap-fast-and-cisco-leap-on-surface-devices.md)
### [Ethernet adapters and Surface deployment](ethernet-adapters-and-surface-device-deployment.md)

## Deploy
### [Deploy Surface devices](deploy.md)
### [Surface Deployment Accelerator](microsoft-surface-deployment-accelerator.md)
### [Step by step: Surface Deployment Accelerator](step-by-step-surface-deployment-accelerator.md)
### [Deploy Windows 10 to Surface devices with MDT](deploy-windows-10-to-surface-devices-with-mdt.md)
### [Upgrade Surface devices to Windows 10 with MDT](upgrade-surface-devices-to-windows-10-with-mdt.md)
### [Customize the OOBE for Surface deployments](customize-the-oobe-for-surface-deployments.md)
### [Using the Surface Deployment Accelerator deployment share](using-the-sda-deployment-share.md)
### [Surface System SKU reference](surface-system-sku-reference.md)

## Manage
### [Best practice power settings for Surface devices](maintain-optimal-power-settings-on-Surface-devices.md)
### [Battery Limit setting](battery-limit.md)
### [Surface Brightness Control](microsoft-surface-brightness-control.md)
### [Surface Asset Tag](assettag.md)
### [Surface firmware and driver updates](update.md)
### [Deploy the latest firmware and drivers for Surface devices](deploy-the-latest-firmware-and-drivers-for-surface-devices.md)
### [Manage Surface driver and firmware updates](manage-surface-pro-3-firmware-updates.md)
### [Surface Dock Updater](surface-dock-updater.md)


## Secure
### [Manage Surface UEFI settings](manage-surface-uefi-settings.md)
### [Advanced UEFI security features for Surface Pro 3](advanced-uefi-security-features-for-surface-pro-3.md)
### [Surface Enterprise Management Mode](surface-enterprise-management-mode.md)
### [Enroll and configure Surface devices with SEMM](enroll-and-configure-surface-devices-with-semm.md)
### [Unenroll Surface devices from SEMM](unenroll-surface-devices-from-semm.md)
### [Use System Center Configuration Manager to manage devices with SEMM](use-system-center-configuration-manager-to-manage-devices-with-semm.md)

## Support
### [Fix common Surface problems using the Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-for-business-intro.md)
### [Deploy Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-business.md)
### [Use Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business in desktop mode](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-desktop-mode.md)
### [Run Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business using commands](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-command-line.md)
### [Surface Data Eraser](microsoft-surface-data-eraser.md)
### [Top support solutions for Surface devices](support-solutions-surface.md)
### [Change history for Surface documentation](change-history-for-surface.md)

Commit message:

new page for wireless connect

devices/surface/TOC.md, after:

# [Surface](index.md)

## [Get started](get-started.md)

## Overview
### [Surface Pro Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-pro/tech-specs)
### [Surface Book Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-book/tech-specs)
### [Surface Studio Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-studio/tech-specs)
### [Surface Go Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-go/tech-specs)
### [Surface Laptop 2 Tech specs](https://www.microsoft.com/surface/devices/surface-laptop/tech-specs)

## Plan
### [Windows Autopilot and Surface devices](windows-autopilot-and-surface-devices.md)
### [Surface device compatibility with Windows 10 Long-Term Servicing Branch](surface-device-compatibility-with-windows-10-ltsc.md)
### [Long-Term Servicing Branch for Surface devices](ltsb-for-surface.md)
### [Wake On LAN for Surface devices](wake-on-lan-for-surface-devices.md)
### [Considerations for Surface and System Center Configuration Manager](considerations-for-surface-and-system-center-configuration-manager.md)
### [Deploy Surface app with Microsoft Store for Business](deploy-surface-app-with-windows-store-for-business.md)
### [Enable PEAP, EAP-FAST, and Cisco LEAP on Surface devices](enable-peap-eap-fast-and-cisco-leap-on-surface-devices.md)
### [Ethernet adapters and Surface deployment](ethernet-adapters-and-surface-device-deployment.md)

## Deploy
### [Deploy Surface devices](deploy.md)
### [Surface Deployment Accelerator](microsoft-surface-deployment-accelerator.md)
### [Step by step: Surface Deployment Accelerator](step-by-step-surface-deployment-accelerator.md)
### [Deploy Windows 10 to Surface devices with MDT](deploy-windows-10-to-surface-devices-with-mdt.md)
### [Upgrade Surface devices to Windows 10 with MDT](upgrade-surface-devices-to-windows-10-with-mdt.md)
### [Customize the OOBE for Surface deployments](customize-the-oobe-for-surface-deployments.md)
### [Using the Surface Deployment Accelerator deployment share](using-the-sda-deployment-share.md)
### [Surface System SKU reference](surface-system-sku-reference.md)

## Manage
### [Optimizing wireless connectivity for Surface devices](surface-wireless-connect.md)
### [Best practice power settings for Surface devices](maintain-optimal-power-settings-on-Surface-devices.md)
### [Battery Limit setting](battery-limit.md)
### [Surface Brightness Control](microsoft-surface-brightness-control.md)
### [Surface Asset Tag](assettag.md)
### [Surface firmware and driver updates](update.md)
### [Deploy the latest firmware and drivers for Surface devices](deploy-the-latest-firmware-and-drivers-for-surface-devices.md)
### [Manage Surface driver and firmware updates](manage-surface-pro-3-firmware-updates.md)
### [Surface Dock Updater](surface-dock-updater.md)


## Secure
### [Manage Surface UEFI settings](manage-surface-uefi-settings.md)
### [Advanced UEFI security features for Surface Pro 3](advanced-uefi-security-features-for-surface-pro-3.md)
### [Surface Enterprise Management Mode](surface-enterprise-management-mode.md)
### [Enroll and configure Surface devices with SEMM](enroll-and-configure-surface-devices-with-semm.md)
### [Unenroll Surface devices from SEMM](unenroll-surface-devices-from-semm.md)
### [Use System Center Configuration Manager to manage devices with SEMM](use-system-center-configuration-manager-to-manage-devices-with-semm.md)

## Troubleshoot
### [Fix common Surface problems using the Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-for-business-intro.md)
#### [Deploy Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-business.md)
#### [Use Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business in desktop mode](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-desktop-mode.md)
#### [Run Surface Diagnostic Toolkit for Business using commands](surface-diagnostic-toolkit-command-line.md)
### [Surface Data Eraser](microsoft-surface-data-eraser.md)
### [Top support solutions for Surface devices](support-solutions-surface.md)
### [Change history for Surface documentation](change-history-for-surface.md)
