devices/surface/update.md, before:

---
title: Surface firmware and driver updates (Surface)
description: Find out how to download and manage the latest firmware and driver updates for your Surface device.
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.pagetype: surface, devices
ms.sitesec: library
author: heatherpoulsen
---

# Surface firmware and driver updates

Find out how to download and manage the latest firmware and driver updates for your Surface device.

## In this section

| Topic | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Download the latest firmware and drivers for Surface devices](deploy-the-latest-firmware-and-drivers-for-surface-devices.md)| Get a list of the available downloads for Surface devices and links to download the drivers and firmware for your device.| 
| [Manage Surface driver and firmware updates](manage-surface-pro-3-firmware-updates.md)| Explore the available options to manage firmware and driver updates for Surface devices.|
| [Manage Surface Dock firmware updates](manage-surface-dock-firmware-updates.md)| Read about the different methods you can use to manage the process of Surface Dock firmware updates.|
| [Surface Dock Updater](surface-dock-updater.md)| Get a detailed walkthrough of Microsoft Surface Dock Updater.|
 

## Related topics

[Surface TechCenter](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows/surface)

[Surface for IT pros blog](http://blogs.technet.com/b/surface/)

Commit message:

new content; Surface Wake On LAN

devices/surface/update.md, after:

---
title: Surface firmware and driver updates (Surface)
description: Find out how to download and manage the latest firmware and driver updates for your Surface device.
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.pagetype: surface, devices
ms.sitesec: library
author: heatherpoulsen
---

# Surface firmware and driver updates

Find out how to download and manage the latest firmware and driver updates for your Surface device.

## In this section

| Topic | Description |
| --- | --- |
|[Wake On LAN for Surface devices](wake-on-lan-for-surface-devices.md) | See how you can use Wake On LAN to remotely wake up devices to perform management or maintenance tasks, or to enable management solutions automatically. |
| [Download the latest firmware and drivers for Surface devices](deploy-the-latest-firmware-and-drivers-for-surface-devices.md)| Get a list of the available downloads for Surface devices and links to download the drivers and firmware for your device.| 
| [Manage Surface driver and firmware updates](manage-surface-pro-3-firmware-updates.md)| Explore the available options to manage firmware and driver updates for Surface devices.|
| [Manage Surface Dock firmware updates](manage-surface-dock-firmware-updates.md)| Read about the different methods you can use to manage the process of Surface Dock firmware updates.|
| [Surface Dock Updater](surface-dock-updater.md)| Get a detailed walkthrough of Microsoft Surface Dock Updater.|
 

## Related topics

[Surface TechCenter](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows/surface)

[Surface for IT pros blog](http://blogs.technet.com/b/surface/)
