education/windows/index.md, before:

---
title: Windows 10 for Education (Windows 10)
description: Learn about using Windows 10 in schools.
ms.prod: W10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: jdeckerMS
---

# Windows 10 for Education
[Windows 10 Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/windows/default.aspx) empowers staff, administrators, teachers and students to do great things.

[Find out how to get Windows 10 Education for your school.](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/buy-license/overview-of-how-to-buy/default.aspx?tabshow=schools)

## In this section

|Topic |Description |
|------|------------|
|[Use Set up School PCs app](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md) | Learn how to use the Set up School PCs app to quickly configure new Windows 10 PCs for students. |
| [Set up students' PCs to join domain](set-up-students-pcs-to-join-domain.md) | Learn how to create provisioning packages to easily configure student's PCs to join your Active Directory domain. |
| [Deploy Windows 10 in a school](deploy-windows-10-in-a-school.md) | Learn how to deploy Windows 10 in classrooms; integrate the school environment with Microsoft Office 365, Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS), and Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD); and deploy Windows 10 and your apps to new devices or upgrade existing devices to Windows 10. |
| [Chromebook migration guide](chromebook-migration-guide.md) | Learn how to migrate a Google Chromebook-based learning environment to a Windows 10-based learning environment. |

## Related topics
- [Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/index)

Commit message:

added new topic to toc/index

education/windows/index.md, after:

---
title: Windows 10 for Education (Windows 10)
description: Learn about using Windows 10 in schools.
ms.prod: W10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: jdeckerMS
---

# Windows 10 for Education
[Windows 10 Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/windows/default.aspx) empowers staff, administrators, teachers and students to do great things.

[Find out how to get Windows 10 Education for your school.](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/buy-license/overview-of-how-to-buy/default.aspx?tabshow=schools)

## In this section

|Topic |Description |
|------|------------|
|[Use Set up School PCs app](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md) | Learn how to use the Set up School PCs app to quickly configure new Windows 10 PCs for students. |
| [Set up School PCs app technical reference](set-up-school-pcs-technical.md) | This topic provides prerequisites and provisioning details for using the **Set up School PCs** app. |
| [Set up students' PCs to join domain](set-up-students-pcs-to-join-domain.md) | Learn how to create provisioning packages to easily configure student's PCs to join your Active Directory domain. |
| [Deploy Windows 10 in a school](deploy-windows-10-in-a-school.md) | Learn how to deploy Windows 10 in classrooms; integrate the school environment with Microsoft Office 365, Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS), and Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD); and deploy Windows 10 and your apps to new devices or upgrade existing devices to Windows 10. |
| [Chromebook migration guide](chromebook-migration-guide.md) | Learn how to migrate a Google Chromebook-based learning environment to a Windows 10-based learning environment. |

## Related topics
- [Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/index)
