---  
title: What's new in the Windows Set up School PCs app 
description: Find out about app updates and new features in Set up School PCs.  
keywords: shared cart, shared PC, school, set up school pcs  
ms.prod: w10  
ms.mktglfcycl: plan  
ms.sitesec: library  
ms.pagetype: edu  
ms.localizationpriority: medium  
author: lenewsad  
ms.author: lanewsad  
ms.date: 06/03/2019 
---  

# What's new in Set up School PCs
Learn what’s new with the Set up School PCs app each week. Find out about new app features and functionality, and see updated screenshots. You'll also find information about past releases.   

## Week of May 23, 2019   

### Suspended support for Windows 10, version 1903 and later
Due to a provisioning problem, Set up School PCs has temporarily stopped support for Windows 10, version 1903 and later. All settings in the app that were for Windows 10, version 1903 and later have been removed. When the problem is resolved, support will resume again.  

### Mandatory device rename for Azure AD joined devices
If you configure Azure AD Join, you are now required to rename your devices during setup. Set up School PCs will not let you keep existing device names.    

## Week of April 15, 2019  

### Support for Minecraft Education Edition upgrade
 Set up School PCs will only add apps to the provisioning package that meet the minimum supported version for Windows 10. For example, Minecraft was the most recent store app to upgrade, and when selected, can only be installed on devices running Windows 10, version 1709 and later. If you select an earlier Windows version, Minecraft won't be added to the provisioning package.  

## Week of April 8, 2019  

### Apps configured as non-removeable  
All apps that are deployed by Set up School PCs are configured on the device as non-removable apps. This feature ensures that students don't unpin or uninstall the apps they need.  

### Domain name automatically added during sign-in  
Specify your preferred Azure Active Directory tenant domain name to automatically append it to the username on the sign-in screen. With this setting, students don't need to type out long school domain names. They can sign in by typing only their unique usernames.  

### Set up devices with hidden Wi-Fi network
Set up devices so that they connect to a hidden Wi-Fi network. To configure a hidden network, open Set up School PCs. When you get to **Wireless network**, choose **Add a Wi-Fi network**. Enter in your Wi-Fi information and select **Hidden network**.  


## Week of December 31, 2018

### Add Microsoft Whiteboard to provisioning package  
Microsoft Whiteboard has been added to the list of Microsoft-recommended apps for schools. Whiteboard is a freeform digital canvas where ideas, content, and people come together so students can create and collaborate in real time in the classroom. You can add Whiteboard to your provisioning package in Set up School PCs, on the **Add apps** page. For more information see [Use Set up School PCs app](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md#create-the-provisioning-package).  

## Week of November 5, 2018  

### Sync school app inventory from Microsoft Store
During setup, you can now add apps from your school's Microsoft Store inventory. After you sign in with your school's Office 365 account, Set up School PCs will sync the apps from Microsoft Store, and make them visible on the **Add apps** page. For more information about adding apps, see [Use Set Up School PCs app](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md#create-the-provisioning-package).   


## Week of October 15, 2018

The Set up School PCs app was updated with the following changes:

### Three new setup screens added to the app
The following screens and functionality were added to the setup workflow. Select a screen name to view the relevant steps and screenshots in the Set Up School PCs docs.  

* [**Package name**](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md#package-name): Customize a package name to make it easy to recognize it from your school's other packages. The name is generated by Azure Active Directory and appears as the filename and as the token name in Azure AD in the Azure portal.  

* [**Product key**](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md#product-key): Enter a product key to upgrade your current edition of Windows 10, or change the existing product key. 

* [**Personalization**](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md#personalization): Upload images from your computer to customize how the lock screen and background appears on student devices.

### Azure AD token expiration extended to 180 days
Packages now expire 180 days from the date you create them.  

### Updated apps with more helpful, descriptive text 
We've updated the app's **Skip** buttons to clarify the intent of each action. You'll also see an **Exit** button on the last page of the app.  

### Option to keep existing device names
The [**Name these devices** screen](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md#device-names) now gives you the option to keep the original or existing names of your student devices.   

### Skype and Messaging apps to be removed from student PCs by default
We've added the Skype and Messaging app to a selection of apps that are, by default, removed from student devices.  


## Next steps    
Learn more about setting up devices with the Set up School PCs app.  
* [What's in my provisioning package?](set-up-school-pcs-provisioning-package.md)
* [Shared PC mode for schools](set-up-school-pcs-shared-pc-mode.md)
* [Set up School PCs technical reference](set-up-school-pcs-technical.md)
* [Set up Windows 10 devices for education](set-up-windows-10.md) 

When you're ready to create and apply your provisioning package, see [Use Set up School PCs app](use-set-up-school-pcs-app.md).





