windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/commercial-gov.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Defender ATP in Azure Government
description: Learn about the requirements and the available Microsoft Defender ATP capabilities in Azure Government
keywords: government, requirements, capabilities, azure, defender, defender atp, mdatp
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Microsoft Defender ATP for US Government customers

**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) in Azure Government uses the same underlying technologies as Microsoft Defender ATP in Azure Commercial. This offering is currently available to US Office 365 GCC High customers and  is based on the same prevention, detection, investigation, and remediation as the commercial version. However, there are some key differences in the availability of capabilities for Office 365 GCC High customers. 


## Endpoint versions
The following OS versions are supported:

- Windows 10, version 1903 
- Windows 10, version 1809 (OS Build 17763.404 with [KB4490481](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4490481))
- Windows 10, version 1803 (OS Build 17134.799 with [KB4499183](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4499183))
- Windows 10, version 1709 (OS Build 16299.1182 with [KB4499147](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4499147)) 
- Windows Server, 2019 (with [KB4490481](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4490481))

>[!NOTE]
>A patch must be deployed before machine onboarding in order to configure Microsoft Defender ATP to the correct environment.

The following OS versions are not supported:
- Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1
- Windows Server 2012 R2
- Windows Server 2016
- Windows Server, version 1803
- Windows 7 SP1 Enterprise
- Windows 7 SP1 Pro
- Windows 8 Pro
- Windows 8.1 Enterprise

The initial release of Microsoft Defender ATP will not have immediate parity with the commercial offering.  While our goal is to deliver all commercial features and functionality to our Azure Government environment, there are some capabilities not yet available that we'd like to highlight.  These are the known gaps as of August 2019:

## Threat & Vulnerability Management
Not currently available.


## Automated investigation and remediation
The following capabilities are not currently available:
- Response to Office 365 alerts 
- Live response 



## Management and APIs
The following capabilities are not available:

- Threat protection report
- Machine health and compliance report
- Integration with third-party products


## Integrations
Integrations with the following Microsoft products are not currently available:
- Azure Security Center
- Azure Advanced Threat Protection
- Azure Information Protection
- Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection
- Microsoft Cloud App Security
- Skype for Business
- Microsoft Intune

## Microsoft Threat Experts
Not currently available.

## Required connectivity settings
You'll need to ensure that traffic from the following are allowed:

Service location | DNS record
:---|:---
Common URLs for all locations (Global location) | ```crl.microsoft.com```<br>```ctldl.windowsupdate.com```<br>```notify.windows.com```
Microsoft Defender ATP GCC high specific | ```us4-v20.events.data.microsoft.com``` <br>```winatp-gw-usgt.microsoft.com```<br>```winatp-gw-usgv.microsoft.com```<br>```*.blob.core.usgovcloudapi.net```

Commit message:

add device sharing for intune details

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/commercial-gov.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Defender ATP in Azure Government
description: Learn about the requirements and the available Microsoft Defender ATP capabilities in Azure Government
keywords: government, requirements, capabilities, azure, defender, defender atp, mdatp
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Microsoft Defender ATP for US Government customers

**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for US Government customers uses the same underlying technologies as Microsoft Defender ATP in Azure Commercial. 

This offering is currently available to US Office 365 GCC High customers and  is based on the same prevention, detection, investigation, and remediation as the commercial version. However, there are some key differences in the availability of capabilities for Office 365 GCC High customers. 


## Endpoint versions
The following OS versions are supported:

- Windows 10, version 1903 
- Windows 10, version 1809 (OS Build 17763.404 with [KB4490481](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4490481))
- Windows 10, version 1803 (OS Build 17134.799 with [KB4499183](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4499183))
- Windows 10, version 1709 (OS Build 16299.1182 with [KB4499147](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4499147)) 
- Windows Server, 2019 (with [KB4490481](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4490481))

>[!NOTE]
>A patch must be deployed before machine onboarding in order to configure Microsoft Defender ATP to the correct environment.

The following OS versions are not supported:
- Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1
- Windows Server 2012 R2
- Windows Server 2016
- Windows Server, version 1803
- Windows 7 SP1 Enterprise
- Windows 7 SP1 Pro
- Windows 8 Pro
- Windows 8.1 Enterprise

The initial release of Microsoft Defender ATP will not have immediate parity with the commercial offering.  While our goal is to deliver all commercial features and functionality to our Azure Government environment, there are some capabilities not yet available that we'd like to highlight.  These are the known gaps as of August 2019:

## Threat & Vulnerability Management
Not currently available.


## Automated investigation and remediation
The following capabilities are not currently available:
- Response to Office 365 alerts 
- Live response 



## Management and APIs
The following capabilities are not available:

- Threat protection report
- Machine health and compliance report
- Integration with third-party products


## Integrations
Integrations with the following Microsoft products are not currently available:
- Azure Security Center
- Azure Advanced Threat Protection
- Azure Information Protection
- Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection
- Microsoft Cloud App Security
- Skype for Business
- Microsoft Intune (sharing of device information and enhanced policy enforcement)

## Microsoft Threat Experts
Not currently available.

## Required connectivity settings
You'll need to ensure that traffic from the following are allowed:

Service location | DNS record
:---|:---
Common URLs for all locations (Global location) | ```crl.microsoft.com```<br>```ctldl.windowsupdate.com```<br>```notify.windows.com```
Microsoft Defender ATP GCC high specific | ```us4-v20.events.data.microsoft.com``` <br>```winatp-gw-usgt.microsoft.com```<br>```winatp-gw-usgv.microsoft.com```<br>```*.blob.core.usgovcloudapi.net```
