windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/whats-new-in-microsoft-defender-atp.md, before:

---
title: What's new in Microsoft Defender ATP
description: Lists the new features and functionality in Microsoft Defender ATP
keywords: what's new in microsoft defender atp, ga, generally available, capabilities, available, new
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: secure
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# What's new in Microsoft Defender ATP

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

The following features are generally available (GA) in the latest release of Microsoft Defender ATP as well as security features in Windows 10 and Windows Server.


For more information preview features, see [Preview features](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/preview-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection).

## May 2019

- [Threat protection reports](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/threat-protection-reports-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR>The threat protection report provides high-level information about alerts generated in your organization. 


- [Microsoft Threat Experts](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/microsoft-threat-experts)<BR> Microsoft Threat Experts is the new managed threat hunting service in Microsoft Defender ATP that provides proactive hunting, prioritization, and additional context and insights that further empower security operations centers (SOCs) to identify and respond to threats quickly and accurately. It provides additional layer of expertise and optics that Microsoft customers can utilize to augment security operation capabilities as part of Microsoft 365.  

- [Indicators](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/ti-indicator) <BR> APIs for indicators are now generally available. 


- [Interoperability](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/partner-applications) <BR> Microsoft Defender ATP supports third-party applications to help enhance the detection, investigation, and threat intelligence capabilities of the platform.


## April 2019
- [Microsoft Threat Experts Targeted Attack Notification capability](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/microsoft-threat-experts#targeted-attack-notification) <BR> Microsoft Threat Experts' Targeted Attack Notification alerts are tailored to organizations to provide as much information as can be quickly delivered thus bringing attention to critical threats in their network, including the timeline, scope of breach, and the methods of intrusion.

- [Microsoft Defender ATP API](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/use-apis) <BR> Microsoft Defender ATP exposes much of its data and actions through a set of programmatic APIs. Those APIs will enable you to automate workflows and innovate based on Microsoft Defender ATP capabilities. 



## February 2019
- [Incidents](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/incidents-queue) <BR> Incident is a new entity in Microsoft Defender ATP that brings together all relevant alerts and related entities to narrate the broader attack story, giving analysts better perspective on the purview of complex threats. 

- [Onboard previous versions of Windows](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/onboard-downlevel-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> Onboard supported versions of Windows machines so that they can send sensor data to the Microsoft Defender ATP sensor.


## October 2018
- [Attack surface reduction rules](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/attack-surface-reduction-exploit-guard)<BR>All Attack surface reduction rules are now supported on Windows Server 2019.

- [Controlled folder access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/enable-controlled-folders-exploit-guard)<BR> Controlled folder access is now supported on Windows Server 2019.

- [Custom detection](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/overview-custom-detections)<BR>With custom detections, you can create custom queries to monitor events for any kind of behavior such as suspicious or emerging threats. This can be done by leveraging the power of Advanced hunting through the creation of custom detection rules. 

- [Integration with Azure Security Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/configure-server-endpoints-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection#integration-with-azure-security-center)<BR> Microsoft Defender ATP integrates with Azure Security Center to provide a comprehensive server protection solution. With this integration Azure Security Center can leverage the power of Microsoft Defender ATP to provide improved threat detection for Windows Servers.

- [Managed security service provider (MSSP) support](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/mssp-support-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> Microsoft Defender ATP adds support for this scenario by providing MSSP integration. The integration will allow MSSPs to take the following actions: Get access to MSSP customer's Microsoft Defender Security Center portal, fetch email notifications, and fetch alerts through security information and event management (SIEM) tools.

- [Removable device control](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/12/19/windows-defender-atp-has-protections-for-usb-and-removable-devices/)<BR>Microsoft Defender ATP provides multiple monitoring and control features to help prevent threats from removable devices, including new settings to allow or block specific hardware IDs.

- [Support for iOS and Android devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/configure-endpoints-non-windows-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection#turn-on-third-party-integration)<BR> iOS and Android devices are now supported and can be onboarded to the service.

- [Threat analytics](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/threat-analytics)<BR>
Threat Analytics is a set of interactive reports published by the Microsoft Defender ATP research team as soon as emerging threats and outbreaks are identified. The reports help security operations teams assess impact on their environment and provides recommended actions to contain, increase organizational resilience, and prevent specific threats.

- New in Windows 10 version 1809, there are two new attack surface reduction rules: 
  -	Block Adobe Reader from creating child processes
  -	Block Office communication application from creating child processes.
  
- [Windows Defender Antivirus](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10)
    - Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI) was extended to cover Office VBA macros as well. [Office VBA + AMSI: Parting the veil on malicious macros](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/09/12/office-vba-amsi-parting-the-veil-on-malicious-macros/).
    - Windows Defender Antivirus, new in Windows 10 version 1809, can now [run within a sandbox](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/10/26/windows-defender-antivirus-can-now-run-in-a-sandbox/) (preview), increasing its security.
    - [Configure CPU priority settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/configure-advanced-scan-types-windows-defender-antivirus) for Windows Defender Antivirus scans.


  
## March 2018
- [Advanced Hunting](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/advanced-hunting-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection) <BR>
Query data using Advanced hunting in Microsoft Defender ATP.

- [Attack surface reduction rules](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/attack-surface-reduction-exploit-guard)<BR>
    New attack surface reduction rules: 
  -	Use advanced protection against ransomware
  -	Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem (lsass.exe)
  - Block process creations originating from PSExec and WMI commands
  - Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB
  - Block executable content from email client and webmail

- [Automated investigation and remediation](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/automated-investigations-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> Use Automated investigations to investigate and remediate threats.

    >[!NOTE]
    >Available from Windows 10, version 1803 or later.

- [Conditional Access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/conditional-access-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection) <br> Enable conditional access to better protect users, devices, and data.

- [Microsoft Defender ATP Community center](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/community-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> 
    The Microsoft Defender ATP Community Center is a place where community members can learn, collaborate, and share experiences about the product. 

- [Controlled folder access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/enable-controlled-folders-exploit-guard)<BR>
You can now block untrusted processes from writing to disk sectors using Controlled Folder Access.

- [Onboard non-Windows machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/configure-endpoints-non-windows-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR>
    Microsoft Defender ATP provides a centralized security operations experience for Windows as well as non-Windows platforms. You'll be able to see alerts from various supported operating systems (OS) in Microsoft Defender Security Center and better protect your organization's network.

- [Role-based access control (RBAC)](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/rbac-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR>
    Using role-based access control (RBAC), you can create roles and groups within your security operations team to grant appropriate access to the portal.


- [Windows Defender Antivirus](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10)<BR>
Windows Defender Antivirus now shares detection status between M365 services and interoperates with Microsoft Defender ATP. For more information, see [Use next-gen technologies in Windows Defender Antivirus through cloud-delivered protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/utilize-microsoft-cloud-protection-windows-defender-antivirus).

    Block at first sight can now block non-portable executable files (such as JS, VBS, or macros) as well as executable files. For more information, see [Enable block at first sight](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/configure-block-at-first-sight-windows-defender-antivirus).

Commit message:

move health reports to ga

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/whats-new-in-microsoft-defender-atp.md, after:

---
title: What's new in Microsoft Defender ATP
description: Lists the new features and functionality in Microsoft Defender ATP
keywords: what's new in microsoft defender atp, ga, generally available, capabilities, available, new
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: secure
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# What's new in Microsoft Defender ATP

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

The following features are generally available (GA) in the latest release of Microsoft Defender ATP as well as security features in Windows 10 and Windows Server.


For more information preview features, see [Preview features](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/preview-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection).

## June 2019
- [Machine health and compliance report](machine-reports.md)  The machine health and compliance report provides high-level information about the devices in your organization.

## May 2019

- [Threat protection reports](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/threat-protection-reports-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR>The threat protection report provides high-level information about alerts generated in your organization. 


- [Microsoft Threat Experts](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/microsoft-threat-experts)<BR> Microsoft Threat Experts is the new managed threat hunting service in Microsoft Defender ATP that provides proactive hunting, prioritization, and additional context and insights that further empower security operations centers (SOCs) to identify and respond to threats quickly and accurately. It provides additional layer of expertise and optics that Microsoft customers can utilize to augment security operation capabilities as part of Microsoft 365.  

- [Indicators](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/ti-indicator) <BR> APIs for indicators are now generally available. 


- [Interoperability](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/partner-applications) <BR> Microsoft Defender ATP supports third-party applications to help enhance the detection, investigation, and threat intelligence capabilities of the platform.


## April 2019
- [Microsoft Threat Experts Targeted Attack Notification capability](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/microsoft-threat-experts#targeted-attack-notification) <BR> Microsoft Threat Experts' Targeted Attack Notification alerts are tailored to organizations to provide as much information as can be quickly delivered thus bringing attention to critical threats in their network, including the timeline, scope of breach, and the methods of intrusion.

- [Microsoft Defender ATP API](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/use-apis) <BR> Microsoft Defender ATP exposes much of its data and actions through a set of programmatic APIs. Those APIs will enable you to automate workflows and innovate based on Microsoft Defender ATP capabilities. 



## February 2019
- [Incidents](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/incidents-queue) <BR> Incident is a new entity in Microsoft Defender ATP that brings together all relevant alerts and related entities to narrate the broader attack story, giving analysts better perspective on the purview of complex threats. 

- [Onboard previous versions of Windows](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/onboard-downlevel-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> Onboard supported versions of Windows machines so that they can send sensor data to the Microsoft Defender ATP sensor.


## October 2018
- [Attack surface reduction rules](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/attack-surface-reduction-exploit-guard)<BR>All Attack surface reduction rules are now supported on Windows Server 2019.

- [Controlled folder access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/enable-controlled-folders-exploit-guard)<BR> Controlled folder access is now supported on Windows Server 2019.

- [Custom detection](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/overview-custom-detections)<BR>With custom detections, you can create custom queries to monitor events for any kind of behavior such as suspicious or emerging threats. This can be done by leveraging the power of Advanced hunting through the creation of custom detection rules. 

- [Integration with Azure Security Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/configure-server-endpoints-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection#integration-with-azure-security-center)<BR> Microsoft Defender ATP integrates with Azure Security Center to provide a comprehensive server protection solution. With this integration Azure Security Center can leverage the power of Microsoft Defender ATP to provide improved threat detection for Windows Servers.

- [Managed security service provider (MSSP) support](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/mssp-support-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> Microsoft Defender ATP adds support for this scenario by providing MSSP integration. The integration will allow MSSPs to take the following actions: Get access to MSSP customer's Microsoft Defender Security Center portal, fetch email notifications, and fetch alerts through security information and event management (SIEM) tools.

- [Removable device control](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/12/19/windows-defender-atp-has-protections-for-usb-and-removable-devices/)<BR>Microsoft Defender ATP provides multiple monitoring and control features to help prevent threats from removable devices, including new settings to allow or block specific hardware IDs.

- [Support for iOS and Android devices](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/configure-endpoints-non-windows-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection#turn-on-third-party-integration)<BR> iOS and Android devices are now supported and can be onboarded to the service.

- [Threat analytics](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/threat-analytics)<BR>
Threat Analytics is a set of interactive reports published by the Microsoft Defender ATP research team as soon as emerging threats and outbreaks are identified. The reports help security operations teams assess impact on their environment and provides recommended actions to contain, increase organizational resilience, and prevent specific threats.

- New in Windows 10 version 1809, there are two new attack surface reduction rules: 
  -	Block Adobe Reader from creating child processes
  -	Block Office communication application from creating child processes.
  
- [Windows Defender Antivirus](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10)
    - Antimalware Scan Interface (AMSI) was extended to cover Office VBA macros as well. [Office VBA + AMSI: Parting the veil on malicious macros](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/09/12/office-vba-amsi-parting-the-veil-on-malicious-macros/).
    - Windows Defender Antivirus, new in Windows 10 version 1809, can now [run within a sandbox](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2018/10/26/windows-defender-antivirus-can-now-run-in-a-sandbox/) (preview), increasing its security.
    - [Configure CPU priority settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/configure-advanced-scan-types-windows-defender-antivirus) for Windows Defender Antivirus scans.


  
## March 2018
- [Advanced Hunting](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/advanced-hunting-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection) <BR>
Query data using Advanced hunting in Microsoft Defender ATP.

- [Attack surface reduction rules](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/attack-surface-reduction-exploit-guard)<BR>
    New attack surface reduction rules: 
  -	Use advanced protection against ransomware
  -	Block credential stealing from the Windows local security authority subsystem (lsass.exe)
  - Block process creations originating from PSExec and WMI commands
  - Block untrusted and unsigned processes that run from USB
  - Block executable content from email client and webmail

- [Automated investigation and remediation](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/automated-investigations-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> Use Automated investigations to investigate and remediate threats.

    >[!NOTE]
    >Available from Windows 10, version 1803 or later.

- [Conditional Access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/conditional-access-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection) <br> Enable conditional access to better protect users, devices, and data.

- [Microsoft Defender ATP Community center](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/community-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR> 
    The Microsoft Defender ATP Community Center is a place where community members can learn, collaborate, and share experiences about the product. 

- [Controlled folder access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-exploit-guard/enable-controlled-folders-exploit-guard)<BR>
You can now block untrusted processes from writing to disk sectors using Controlled Folder Access.

- [Onboard non-Windows machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/configure-endpoints-non-windows-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR>
    Microsoft Defender ATP provides a centralized security operations experience for Windows as well as non-Windows platforms. You'll be able to see alerts from various supported operating systems (OS) in Microsoft Defender Security Center and better protect your organization's network.

- [Role-based access control (RBAC)](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-atp/rbac-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection)<BR>
    Using role-based access control (RBAC), you can create roles and groups within your security operations team to grant appropriate access to the portal.


- [Windows Defender Antivirus](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/windows-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10)<BR>
Windows Defender Antivirus now shares detection status between M365 services and interoperates with Microsoft Defender ATP. For more information, see [Use next-gen technologies in Windows Defender Antivirus through cloud-delivered protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/utilize-microsoft-cloud-protection-windows-defender-antivirus).

    Block at first sight can now block non-portable executable files (such as JS, VBS, or macros) as well as executable files. For more information, see [Enable block at first sight](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-antivirus/configure-block-at-first-sight-windows-defender-antivirus).
