windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-credentialsdelegation.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - CredentialsDelegation
description: Policy CSP - CredentialsDelegation
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - CredentialsDelegation


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## CredentialsDelegation policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#credentialsdelegation-remotehostallowsdelegationofnonexportablecredentials">CredentialsDelegation/RemoteHostAllowsDelegationOfNonExportableCredentials</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="credentialsdelegation-remotehostallowsdelegationofnonexportablecredentials"></a>**CredentialsDelegation/RemoteHostAllowsDelegationOfNonExportableCredentials**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Remote host allows delegation of non-exportable credentials

When using credential delegation, devices provide an exportable version of credentials to the remote host. This exposes users to the risk of credential theft from attackers on the remote host.

If you enable this policy setting, the host supports Restricted Admin or Remote Credential Guard mode.

If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, Restricted Administration and Remote Credential Guard mode are not supported. User will always need to pass their credentials to the host.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Remote host allows delegation of non-exportable credentials*
-   GP name: *AllowProtectedCreds*
-   GP path: *System/Credentials Delegation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *CredSsp.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-credentialsdelegation.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - CredentialsDelegation
description: Policy CSP - CredentialsDelegation
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - CredentialsDelegation


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## CredentialsDelegation policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#credentialsdelegation-remotehostallowsdelegationofnonexportablecredentials">CredentialsDelegation/RemoteHostAllowsDelegationOfNonExportableCredentials</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="credentialsdelegation-remotehostallowsdelegationofnonexportablecredentials"></a>**CredentialsDelegation/RemoteHostAllowsDelegationOfNonExportableCredentials**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Remote host allows delegation of non-exportable credentials

When using credential delegation, devices provide an exportable version of credentials to the remote host. This exposes users to the risk of credential theft from attackers on the remote host.

If you enable this policy setting, the host supports Restricted Admin or Remote Credential Guard mode.

If you disable or do not configure this policy setting, Restricted Administration and Remote Credential Guard mode are not supported. User will always need to pass their credentials to the host.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Remote host allows delegation of non-exportable credentials*
-   GP name: *AllowProtectedCreds*
-   GP path: *System/Credentials Delegation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *CredSsp.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
