windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-systemservices.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - SystemServices
description: Policy CSP - SystemServices
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 03/12/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - SystemServices


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## SystemServices policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurehomegrouplistenerservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupListenerServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurehomegroupproviderservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupProviderServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxaccessorymanagementservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxAccessoryManagementServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxliveauthmanagerservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveAuthManagerServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxlivegamesaveservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveGameSaveServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxlivenetworkingservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveNetworkingServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurehomegrouplistenerservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupListenerServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *HomeGroup Listener*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurehomegroupproviderservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupProviderServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *HomeGroup Provider*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxaccessorymanagementservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxAccessoryManagementServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Accessory Management Service*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxliveauthmanagerservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveAuthManagerServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Live Auth Manager*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxlivegamesaveservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveGameSaveServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Live Game Save*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxlivenetworkingservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveNetworkingServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Live Networking Service*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-systemservices.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - SystemServices
description: Policy CSP - SystemServices
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 03/12/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - SystemServices


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## SystemServices policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurehomegrouplistenerservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupListenerServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurehomegroupproviderservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupProviderServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxaccessorymanagementservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxAccessoryManagementServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxliveauthmanagerservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveAuthManagerServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxlivegamesaveservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveGameSaveServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#systemservices-configurexboxlivenetworkingservicestartupmode">SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveNetworkingServiceStartupMode</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurehomegrouplistenerservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupListenerServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *HomeGroup Listener*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurehomegroupproviderservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureHomeGroupProviderServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *HomeGroup Provider*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxaccessorymanagementservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxAccessoryManagementServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Accessory Management Service*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxliveauthmanagerservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveAuthManagerServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Live Auth Manager*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxlivegamesaveservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveGameSaveServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Live Game Save*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="systemservices-configurexboxlivenetworkingservicestartupmode"></a>**SystemServices/ConfigureXboxLiveNetworkingServiceStartupMode**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1803. This setting determines whether the service's start type is Automatic(2), Manual(3), Disabled(4). Default: Manual.

<!--/Description-->
<!--DbMapped-->
GP Info:  
-   GP English name: *Xbox Live Networking Service*
-   GP path: *Windows Settings/Security Settings/System Services*

<!--/DbMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
