windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-networkisolation.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - NetworkIsolation
description: Policy CSP - NetworkIsolation
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 05/14/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - NetworkIsolation



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## NetworkIsolation policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterprisecloudresources">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseCloudResources</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseiprange">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRange</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseiprangesareauthoritative">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRangesAreAuthoritative</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseinternalproxyservers">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseInternalProxyServers</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterprisenetworkdomainnames">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseNetworkDomainNames</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseproxyservers">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServers</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseproxyserversareauthoritative">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServersAreAuthoritative</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-neutralresources">NetworkIsolation/NeutralResources</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterprisecloudresources"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseCloudResources**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Contains a list of Enterprise resource domains hosted in the cloud that need to be protected. Connections to these resources are considered enterprise data. If a proxy is paired with a cloud resource, traffic to the cloud resource will be routed through the enterprise network via the denoted proxy server (on Port 80). A proxy server used for this purpose must also be configured using the **EnterpriseInternalProxyServers** policy. This domain list is a pipe-separated list of cloud resources. Each cloud resource can also be paired optionally with an internal proxy server by using a trailing comma followed by the proxy address. For example, **&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;,&lt;*proxy*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;,&lt;*proxy*&gt;|**.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Enterprise resource domains hosted in the cloud*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_EnterpriseCloudResources*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_EnterpriseCloudResourcesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseiprange"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRange**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Sets the enterprise IP ranges that define the computers in the enterprise network. Data that comes from those computers will be considered part of the enterprise and protected. These locations will be considered a safe destination for enterprise data to be shared to. This is a comma-separated list of IPv4 and IPv6 ranges.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Private network ranges for  apps*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_PrivateSubnet*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_PrivateSubnetBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--Example-->
For example:

``` syntax
10.0.0.0-10.255.255.255,157.54.0.0-157.54.255.255,
192.168.0.0-192.168.255.255,2001:4898::-2001:4898:7fff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff,
2001:4898:dc05::-2001:4898:dc05:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff,
2a01:110::-2a01:110:7fff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff,
fd00::-fdff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff
       
```

<!--/Example-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseiprangesareauthoritative"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRangesAreAuthoritative**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Boolean value that tells the client to accept the configured list and not to use heuristics to attempt to find other subnets.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Subnet definitions are authoritative*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Authoritative_Subnet*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseinternalproxyservers"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseInternalProxyServers**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This is the comma-separated list of internal proxy servers. For example "157.54.14.28, 157.54.11.118, 10.202.14.167, 157.53.14.163, 157.69.210.59". These proxies have been configured by the admin to connect to specific resources on the Internet. They are considered to be enterprise network locations. The proxies are only leveraged in configuring the **EnterpriseCloudResources** policy to force traffic to the matched cloud resources through these proxies.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Intranet proxy servers for  apps*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Intranet_Proxies*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_Intranet_ProxiesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterprisenetworkdomainnames"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseNetworkDomainNames**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This is the list of domains that comprise the boundaries of the enterprise. Data from one of these domains that is sent to a device will be considered enterprise data and protected These locations will be considered a safe destination for enterprise data to be shared to. This is a comma-separated list of domains, for example "contoso.sharepoint.com, Fabrikam.com".

> [!NOTE]
> The client requires domain name to be canonical, otherwise the setting will be rejected by the client.
 

Here are the steps to create canonical domain names:

1.  Transform the ASCII characters (A-Z only) to lower case. For example, Microsoft.COM -&gt; microsoft.com.
2.  Call [IdnToAscii](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd318149.aspx) with IDN\_USE\_STD3\_ASCII\_RULES as the flags.
3.  Call [IdnToUnicode](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd318151.aspx) with no flags set (dwFlags = 0).

<!--/Description-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseproxyservers"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServers**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This is a comma-separated list of proxy servers. Any server on this list is considered non-enterprise. For example "157.54.14.28, 157.54.11.118, 10.202.14.167, 157.53.14.163, 157.69.210.59".

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Internet proxy servers for apps*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Domain_Proxies*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_Domain_ProxiesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseproxyserversareauthoritative"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServersAreAuthoritative**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Boolean value that tells the client to accept the configured list of proxies and not try to detect other work proxies.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Proxy definitions are authoritative*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Authoritative_Proxies*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-neutralresources"></a>**NetworkIsolation/NeutralResources**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
List of domain names that can used for work or personal resource.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Domains categorized as both work and personal*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_NeutralResources*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_NeutralResourcesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-networkisolation.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - NetworkIsolation
description: Policy CSP - NetworkIsolation
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 05/14/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - NetworkIsolation



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## NetworkIsolation policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterprisecloudresources">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseCloudResources</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseiprange">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRange</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseiprangesareauthoritative">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRangesAreAuthoritative</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseinternalproxyservers">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseInternalProxyServers</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterprisenetworkdomainnames">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseNetworkDomainNames</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseproxyservers">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServers</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-enterpriseproxyserversareauthoritative">NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServersAreAuthoritative</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#networkisolation-neutralresources">NetworkIsolation/NeutralResources</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterprisecloudresources"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseCloudResources**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Contains a list of Enterprise resource domains hosted in the cloud that need to be protected. Connections to these resources are considered enterprise data. If a proxy is paired with a cloud resource, traffic to the cloud resource will be routed through the enterprise network via the denoted proxy server (on Port 80). A proxy server used for this purpose must also be configured using the **EnterpriseInternalProxyServers** policy. This domain list is a pipe-separated list of cloud resources. Each cloud resource can also be paired optionally with an internal proxy server by using a trailing comma followed by the proxy address. For example, **&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;,&lt;*proxy*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;|&lt;*cloudresource*&gt;,&lt;*proxy*&gt;|**.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Enterprise resource domains hosted in the cloud*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_EnterpriseCloudResources*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_EnterpriseCloudResourcesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseiprange"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRange**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Sets the enterprise IP ranges that define the computers in the enterprise network. Data that comes from those computers will be considered part of the enterprise and protected. These locations will be considered a safe destination for enterprise data to be shared to. This is a comma-separated list of IPv4 and IPv6 ranges.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Private network ranges for  apps*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_PrivateSubnet*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_PrivateSubnetBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--Example-->
For example:

``` syntax
10.0.0.0-10.255.255.255,157.54.0.0-157.54.255.255,
192.168.0.0-192.168.255.255,2001:4898::-2001:4898:7fff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff,
2001:4898:dc05::-2001:4898:dc05:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff,
2a01:110::-2a01:110:7fff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff,
fd00::-fdff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff
       
```

<!--/Example-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseiprangesareauthoritative"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseIPRangesAreAuthoritative**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Boolean value that tells the client to accept the configured list and not to use heuristics to attempt to find other subnets.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Subnet definitions are authoritative*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Authoritative_Subnet*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseinternalproxyservers"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseInternalProxyServers**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This is the comma-separated list of internal proxy servers. For example "157.54.14.28, 157.54.11.118, 10.202.14.167, 157.53.14.163, 157.69.210.59". These proxies have been configured by the admin to connect to specific resources on the Internet. They are considered to be enterprise network locations. The proxies are only leveraged in configuring the **EnterpriseCloudResources** policy to force traffic to the matched cloud resources through these proxies.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Intranet proxy servers for  apps*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Intranet_Proxies*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_Intranet_ProxiesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterprisenetworkdomainnames"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseNetworkDomainNames**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This is the list of domains that comprise the boundaries of the enterprise. Data from one of these domains that is sent to a device will be considered enterprise data and protected These locations will be considered a safe destination for enterprise data to be shared to. This is a comma-separated list of domains, for example "contoso.sharepoint.com, Fabrikam.com".

> [!NOTE]
> The client requires domain name to be canonical, otherwise the setting will be rejected by the client.
 

Here are the steps to create canonical domain names:

1.  Transform the ASCII characters (A-Z only) to lower case. For example, Microsoft.COM -&gt; microsoft.com.
2.  Call [IdnToAscii](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd318149.aspx) with IDN\_USE\_STD3\_ASCII\_RULES as the flags.
3.  Call [IdnToUnicode](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/dd318151.aspx) with no flags set (dwFlags = 0).

<!--/Description-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseproxyservers"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServers**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This is a comma-separated list of proxy servers. Any server on this list is considered non-enterprise. For example "157.54.14.28, 157.54.11.118, 10.202.14.167, 157.53.14.163, 157.69.210.59".

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Internet proxy servers for apps*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Domain_Proxies*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_Domain_ProxiesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-enterpriseproxyserversareauthoritative"></a>**NetworkIsolation/EnterpriseProxyServersAreAuthoritative**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Boolean value that tells the client to accept the configured list of proxies and not try to detect other work proxies.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Proxy definitions are authoritative*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_Authoritative_Proxies*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="networkisolation-neutralresources"></a>**NetworkIsolation/NeutralResources**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
List of domain names that can used for work or personal resource.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Domains categorized as both work and personal*
-   GP name: *WF_NetIsolation_NeutralResources*
-   GP element: *WF_NetIsolation_NeutralResourcesBox*
-   GP path: *Network/Network Isolation*
-   GP ADMX file name: *NetworkIsolation.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
