windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-applicationdefaults.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - ApplicationDefaults
description: Policy CSP - ApplicationDefaults
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - ApplicationDefaults


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## ApplicationDefaults policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#applicationdefaults-defaultassociationsconfiguration">ApplicationDefaults/DefaultAssociationsConfiguration</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#applicationdefaults-enableappurihandlers">ApplicationDefaults/EnableAppUriHandlers</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="applicationdefaults-defaultassociationsconfiguration"></a>**ApplicationDefaults/DefaultAssociationsConfiguration**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1703. This policy allows an administrator to set default file type and protocol associations. When set, default associations will be applied on sign-in to the PC. The association file can be created using the DISM tool (dism /online /export-defaultappassociations:appassoc.xml), and then needs to be  base64 encoded before being added to SyncML.
 
If policy is enabled and the client machine is Azure Active Directory joined, the associations assigned in SyncML will be processed and default associations will be applied.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Set a default associations configuration file*
-   GP name: *DefaultAssociationsConfiguration*
-   GP element: *DefaultAssociationsConfiguration_TextBox*
-   GP path: *File Explorer*
-   GP ADMX file name: *WindowsExplorer.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--Example-->
To create the SyncML, follow these steps:
<ol>
<li>Install a few apps and change your defaults.</li>
<li>From an elevated prompt, run "dism /online /export-defaultappassociations:appassoc.xml"</li>
<li>Take the XML output and put it through your favorite base64 encoder app.</li>
<li>Paste the base64 encoded XML into the SyncML</li>
</ol>

Here is an example output from the dism default association export command:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<DefaultAssociations>
  <Association Identifier=".htm" ProgId="AppX4hxtad77fbk3jkkeerkrm0ze94wjf3s9" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier=".html" ProgId="AppX4hxtad77fbk3jkkeerkrm0ze94wjf3s9" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier=".pdf" ProgId="AppXd4nrz8ff68srnhf9t5a8sbjyar1cr723" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier="http" ProgId="AppXq0fevzme2pys62n3e0fbqa7peapykr8v" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier="https" ProgId="AppX90nv6nhay5n6a98fnetv7tpk64pp35es" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
</DefaultAssociations
```

Here is the base64 encoded result:

``` syntax
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
```

Here is the SyncMl example:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<SyncML xmlns="SYNCML:SYNCML1.1">
<SyncBody>
    <Replace>
      <CmdID>101</CmdID>
      <Item>
        <Meta>
          <Format>chr</Format>
          <Type>text/plain</Type>
        </Meta>
        <Target>
          <LocURI>./Vendor/MSFT/Policy/Config/ApplicationDefaults/DefaultAssociationsConfiguration</LocURI>
        </Target>
        <Data>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
</Data>
      </Item>
    </Replace>
  <Final/>
  </SyncBody>
</SyncML>
```

<!--/Example-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="applicationdefaults-enableappurihandlers"></a>**ApplicationDefaults/EnableAppUriHandlers**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td></td>
	<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting determines whether Windows supports web-to-app linking with app URI handlers.

Enabling this policy setting enables web-to-app linking so that apps can be launched with a http(s) URI.

Disabling this policy disables web-to-app linking and http(s) URIs will be opened in the default browser instead of launching the associated app.

If you do not configure this policy setting, the default behavior depends on the Windows edition. Changes to this policy take effect on reboot.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Configure web-to-app linking with app URI handlers*
-   GP name: *EnableAppUriHandlers*
-   GP path: *System/Group Policy*
-   GP ADMX file name: *GroupPolicy.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
This setting supports a range of values between 0 and 1.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-applicationdefaults.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - ApplicationDefaults
description: Policy CSP - ApplicationDefaults
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - ApplicationDefaults


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## ApplicationDefaults policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#applicationdefaults-defaultassociationsconfiguration">ApplicationDefaults/DefaultAssociationsConfiguration</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#applicationdefaults-enableappurihandlers">ApplicationDefaults/EnableAppUriHandlers</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="applicationdefaults-defaultassociationsconfiguration"></a>**ApplicationDefaults/DefaultAssociationsConfiguration**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>2</sup></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1703. This policy allows an administrator to set default file type and protocol associations. When set, default associations will be applied on sign-in to the PC. The association file can be created using the DISM tool (dism /online /export-defaultappassociations:appassoc.xml), and then needs to be  base64 encoded before being added to SyncML.
 
If policy is enabled and the client machine is Azure Active Directory joined, the associations assigned in SyncML will be processed and default associations will be applied.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Set a default associations configuration file*
-   GP name: *DefaultAssociationsConfiguration*
-   GP element: *DefaultAssociationsConfiguration_TextBox*
-   GP path: *File Explorer*
-   GP ADMX file name: *WindowsExplorer.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--Example-->
To create the SyncML, follow these steps:
<ol>
<li>Install a few apps and change your defaults.</li>
<li>From an elevated prompt, run "dism /online /export-defaultappassociations:appassoc.xml"</li>
<li>Take the XML output and put it through your favorite base64 encoder app.</li>
<li>Paste the base64 encoded XML into the SyncML</li>
</ol>

Here is an example output from the dism default association export command:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<DefaultAssociations>
  <Association Identifier=".htm" ProgId="AppX4hxtad77fbk3jkkeerkrm0ze94wjf3s9" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier=".html" ProgId="AppX4hxtad77fbk3jkkeerkrm0ze94wjf3s9" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier=".pdf" ProgId="AppXd4nrz8ff68srnhf9t5a8sbjyar1cr723" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier="http" ProgId="AppXq0fevzme2pys62n3e0fbqa7peapykr8v" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
  <Association Identifier="https" ProgId="AppX90nv6nhay5n6a98fnetv7tpk64pp35es" ApplicationName="Microsoft Edge" />
</DefaultAssociations
```

Here is the base64 encoded result:

``` syntax
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
```

Here is the SyncMl example:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<SyncML xmlns="SYNCML:SYNCML1.1">
<SyncBody>
    <Replace>
      <CmdID>101</CmdID>
      <Item>
        <Meta>
          <Format>chr</Format>
          <Type>text/plain</Type>
        </Meta>
        <Target>
          <LocURI>./Vendor/MSFT/Policy/Config/ApplicationDefaults/DefaultAssociationsConfiguration</LocURI>
        </Target>
        <Data>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
</Data>
      </Item>
    </Replace>
  <Final/>
  </SyncBody>
</SyncML>
```

<!--/Example-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="applicationdefaults-enableappurihandlers"></a>**ApplicationDefaults/EnableAppUriHandlers**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>4</sup></td>
	<td></td>
	<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting determines whether Windows supports web-to-app linking with app URI handlers.

Enabling this policy setting enables web-to-app linking so that apps can be launched with a http(s) URI.

Disabling this policy disables web-to-app linking and http(s) URIs will be opened in the default browser instead of launching the associated app.

If you do not configure this policy setting, the default behavior depends on the Windows edition. Changes to this policy take effect on reboot.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Configure web-to-app linking with app URI handlers*
-   GP name: *EnableAppUriHandlers*
-   GP path: *System/Group Policy*
-   GP ADMX file name: *GroupPolicy.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
This setting supports a range of values between 0 and 1.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
