windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-abovelock.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - AboveLock
description: Policy CSP - AboveLock
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 05/14/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - AboveLock



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## AboveLock policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#abovelock-allowactioncenternotifications">AboveLock/AllowActionCenterNotifications</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#abovelock-allowcortanaabovelock">AboveLock/AllowCortanaAboveLock</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#abovelock-allowtoasts">AboveLock/AllowToasts</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="abovelock-allowactioncenternotifications"></a>**AboveLock/AllowActionCenterNotifications**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
> [!NOTE]
> This policy is only enforced in Windows 10 Mobile and not supported in Windows 10 for desktop.

Specifies whether to allow Action Center notifications above the device lock screen.

Most restricted value is 0.

<!--/Description-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
The following list shows the supported values:

-   0 - Not allowed.
-   1 (default) - Allowed.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="abovelock-allowcortanaabovelock"></a>**AboveLock/AllowCortanaAboveLock**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1607. Specifies whether or not the user can interact with Cortana using speech while the system is locked. If you enable or don’t configure this setting, the user can interact with Cortana using speech while the system is locked. If you disable this setting, the system will need to be unlocked for the user to interact with Cortana using speech.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Allow Cortana above lock screen*
-   GP name: *AllowCortanaAboveLock*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Search*
-   GP ADMX file name: *Search.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
The following list shows the supported values:

-   0 - Not allowed.
-   1 (default) - Allowed.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="abovelock-allowtoasts"></a>**AboveLock/AllowToasts**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Specifies whether to allow toast notifications above the device lock screen.

Most restricted value is 0.

<!--/Description-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
The following list shows the supported values:

-   0 - Not allowed.
-   1 (default) - Allowed.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-abovelock.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - AboveLock
description: Policy CSP - AboveLock
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 05/14/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - AboveLock



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## AboveLock policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#abovelock-allowactioncenternotifications">AboveLock/AllowActionCenterNotifications</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#abovelock-allowcortanaabovelock">AboveLock/AllowCortanaAboveLock</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#abovelock-allowtoasts">AboveLock/AllowToasts</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="abovelock-allowactioncenternotifications"></a>**AboveLock/AllowActionCenterNotifications**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
> [!NOTE]
> This policy is only enforced in Windows 10 Mobile and not supported in Windows 10 for desktop.

Specifies whether to allow Action Center notifications above the device lock screen.

Most restricted value is 0.

<!--/Description-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
The following list shows the supported values:

-   0 - Not allowed.
-   1 (default) - Allowed.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="abovelock-allowcortanaabovelock"></a>**AboveLock/AllowCortanaAboveLock**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /><sup>1</sup></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Added in Windows 10, version 1607. Specifies whether or not the user can interact with Cortana using speech while the system is locked. If you enable or don’t configure this setting, the user can interact with Cortana using speech while the system is locked. If you disable this setting, the system will need to be unlocked for the user to interact with Cortana using speech.

<!--/Description-->
<!--ADMXMapped-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Allow Cortana above lock screen*
-   GP name: *AllowCortanaAboveLock*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Search*
-   GP ADMX file name: *Search.admx*

<!--/ADMXMapped-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
The following list shows the supported values:

-   0 - Not allowed.
-   1 (default) - Allowed.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="abovelock-allowtoasts"></a>**AboveLock/AllowToasts**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
Specifies whether to allow toast notifications above the device lock screen.

Most restricted value is 0.

<!--/Description-->
<!--SupportedValues-->
The following list shows the supported values:

-   0 - Not allowed.
-   1 (default) - Allowed.

<!--/SupportedValues-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
