windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-windowsconnectionmanager.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - WindowsConnectionManager
description: Policy CSP - WindowsConnectionManager
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - WindowsConnectionManager


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## WindowsConnectionManager policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#windowsconnectionmanager-prohitconnectiontonondomainnetworkswhenconnectedtodomainauthenticatednetwork">WindowsConnectionManager/ProhitConnectionToNonDomainNetworksWhenConnectedToDomainAuthenticatedNetwork</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="windowsconnectionmanager-prohitconnectiontonondomainnetworkswhenconnectedtodomainauthenticatednetwork"></a>**WindowsConnectionManager/ProhitConnectionToNonDomainNetworksWhenConnectedToDomainAuthenticatedNetwork**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting prevents computers from connecting to both a domain based network and a non-domain based network at the same time.

If this policy setting is enabled, the computer responds to automatic and manual network connection attempts based on the following circumstances:

Automatic connection attempts
- When the computer is already connected to a domain based network, all automatic connection attempts to non-domain networks are blocked.
- When the computer is already connected to a non-domain based network, automatic connection attempts to domain based networks are blocked.

Manual connection attempts
- When the computer is already connected to either a non-domain based network or a domain based network over media other than Ethernet, and a user attempts to create a manual connection to an additional network in violation of this policy setting, the existing network connection is disconnected and the manual connection is allowed.
- When the computer is already connected to either a non-domain based network or a domain based network over Ethernet, and a user attempts to create a manual connection to an additional network in violation of this policy setting, the existing Ethernet connection is maintained and the manual connection attempt is blocked.

If this policy setting is not configured or is disabled, computers are allowed to connect simultaneously to both domain and non-domain networks.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Prohibit connection to non-domain networks when connected to domain authenticated network*
-   GP name: *WCM_BlockNonDomain*
-   GP path: *Network/Windows Connection Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *WCM.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-windowsconnectionmanager.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - WindowsConnectionManager
description: Policy CSP - WindowsConnectionManager
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - WindowsConnectionManager


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## WindowsConnectionManager policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#windowsconnectionmanager-prohitconnectiontonondomainnetworkswhenconnectedtodomainauthenticatednetwork">WindowsConnectionManager/ProhitConnectionToNonDomainNetworksWhenConnectedToDomainAuthenticatedNetwork</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="windowsconnectionmanager-prohitconnectiontonondomainnetworkswhenconnectedtodomainauthenticatednetwork"></a>**WindowsConnectionManager/ProhitConnectionToNonDomainNetworksWhenConnectedToDomainAuthenticatedNetwork**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting prevents computers from connecting to both a domain based network and a non-domain based network at the same time.

If this policy setting is enabled, the computer responds to automatic and manual network connection attempts based on the following circumstances:

Automatic connection attempts
- When the computer is already connected to a domain based network, all automatic connection attempts to non-domain networks are blocked.
- When the computer is already connected to a non-domain based network, automatic connection attempts to domain based networks are blocked.

Manual connection attempts
- When the computer is already connected to either a non-domain based network or a domain based network over media other than Ethernet, and a user attempts to create a manual connection to an additional network in violation of this policy setting, the existing network connection is disconnected and the manual connection is allowed.
- When the computer is already connected to either a non-domain based network or a domain based network over Ethernet, and a user attempts to create a manual connection to an additional network in violation of this policy setting, the existing Ethernet connection is maintained and the manual connection attempt is blocked.

If this policy setting is not configured or is disabled, computers are allowed to connect simultaneously to both domain and non-domain networks.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Prohibit connection to non-domain networks when connected to domain authenticated network*
-   GP name: *WCM_BlockNonDomain*
-   GP path: *Network/Windows Connection Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *WCM.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
