windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-remoteassistance.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - RemoteAssistance
description: Policy CSP - RemoteAssistance
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 03/12/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - RemoteAssistance



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## RemoteAssistance policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-customizewarningmessages">RemoteAssistance/CustomizeWarningMessages</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-sessionlogging">RemoteAssistance/SessionLogging</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-solicitedremoteassistance">RemoteAssistance/SolicitedRemoteAssistance</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-unsolicitedremoteassistance">RemoteAssistance/UnsolicitedRemoteAssistance</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-customizewarningmessages"></a>**RemoteAssistance/CustomizeWarningMessages**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting lets you customize warning messages.

The "Display warning message before sharing control" policy setting allows you to specify a custom message to display before a user shares control of his or her computer.

The "Display warning message before connecting" policy setting allows you to specify a custom message to display before a user allows a connection to his or her computer.

If you enable this policy setting, the warning message you specify overrides the default message that is seen by the novice.

If you disable this policy setting, the user sees the default warning message.

If you do not configure this policy setting, the user sees the default warning message.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Customize warning messages*
-   GP name: *RA_Options*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-sessionlogging"></a>**RemoteAssistance/SessionLogging**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to turn logging on or off. Log files are located in the user's Documents folder under Remote Assistance.

If you enable this policy setting, log files are generated.

If you disable this policy setting, log files are not generated.

If you do not configure this setting, application-based settings are used.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Turn on session logging*
-   GP name: *RA_Logging*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-solicitedremoteassistance"></a>**RemoteAssistance/SolicitedRemoteAssistance**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to turn on or turn off Solicited (Ask for) Remote Assistance on this computer.

If you enable this policy setting, users on this computer can use email or file transfer to ask someone for help. Also, users can use instant messaging programs to allow connections to this computer, and you can configure additional Remote Assistance settings.

If you disable this policy setting, users on this computer cannot use email or file transfer to ask someone for help. Also, users cannot use instant messaging programs to allow connections to this computer.

If you do not configure this policy setting, users can turn on or turn off Solicited (Ask for) Remote Assistance themselves in System Properties in Control Panel. Users can also configure Remote Assistance settings.

If you enable this policy setting, you have two ways to allow helpers to provide Remote Assistance: "Allow helpers to only view the computer" or "Allow helpers to remotely control the computer."

The "Maximum ticket time" policy setting sets a limit on the amount of time that a Remote Assistance invitation created by using email or file transfer can remain open.

The "Select the method for sending email invitations" setting specifies which email standard to use to send Remote Assistance invitations. Depending on your email program, you can use either the Mailto standard (the invitation recipient connects through an Internet link) or the SMAPI (Simple MAPI) standard (the invitation is attached to your email message). This policy setting is not available in Windows Vista since SMAPI is the only method supported.

If you enable this policy setting you should also enable appropriate firewall exceptions to allow Remote Assistance communications.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Configure Solicited Remote Assistance*
-   GP name: *RA_Solicit*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-unsolicitedremoteassistance"></a>**RemoteAssistance/UnsolicitedRemoteAssistance**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to turn on or turn off Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance on this computer.

If you enable this policy setting, users on this computer can get help from their corporate technical support staff using Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance.

If you disable this policy setting, users on this computer cannot get help from their corporate technical support staff using Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance.

If you do not configure this policy setting, users on this computer cannot get help from their corporate technical support staff using Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance.

If you enable this policy setting, you have two ways to allow helpers to provide Remote Assistance: "Allow helpers to only view the computer" or "Allow helpers to remotely control the computer." When you configure this policy setting, you also specify the list of users or user groups that are allowed to offer remote assistance.

To configure the list of helpers, click "Show." In the window that opens, you can enter the names of the helpers. Add each user or group one by one. When you enter the name of the helper user or user groups, use the following format:

`<Domain Name>\<User Name>` or

`<Domain Name>\<Group Name>`

If you enable this policy setting, you should also enable firewall exceptions to allow Remote Assistance communications. The firewall exceptions required for Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance depend on the version of Windows you are running.

Windows Vista and later

Enable the Remote Assistance exception for the domain profile. The exception must contain:
Port 135:TCP
%WINDIR%\System32\msra.exe
%WINDIR%\System32\raserver.exe

Windows XP with Service Pack 2 (SP2) and Windows XP Professional x64 Edition with Service Pack 1 (SP1)

Port 135:TCP
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpsvc.exe
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpctr.exe
%WINDIR%\System32\Sessmgr.exe

For computers running Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1 (SP1)

Port 135:TCP
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpsvc.exe
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpctr.exe
Allow Remote Desktop Exception

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Configure Offer Remote Assistance*
-   GP name: *RA_Unsolicit*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-remoteassistance.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - RemoteAssistance
description: Policy CSP - RemoteAssistance
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 03/12/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - RemoteAssistance



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## RemoteAssistance policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-customizewarningmessages">RemoteAssistance/CustomizeWarningMessages</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-sessionlogging">RemoteAssistance/SessionLogging</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-solicitedremoteassistance">RemoteAssistance/SolicitedRemoteAssistance</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#remoteassistance-unsolicitedremoteassistance">RemoteAssistance/UnsolicitedRemoteAssistance</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-customizewarningmessages"></a>**RemoteAssistance/CustomizeWarningMessages**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting lets you customize warning messages.

The "Display warning message before sharing control" policy setting allows you to specify a custom message to display before a user shares control of his or her computer.

The "Display warning message before connecting" policy setting allows you to specify a custom message to display before a user allows a connection to his or her computer.

If you enable this policy setting, the warning message you specify overrides the default message that is seen by the novice.

If you disable this policy setting, the user sees the default warning message.

If you do not configure this policy setting, the user sees the default warning message.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Customize warning messages*
-   GP name: *RA_Options*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-sessionlogging"></a>**RemoteAssistance/SessionLogging**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to turn logging on or off. Log files are located in the user's Documents folder under Remote Assistance.

If you enable this policy setting, log files are generated.

If you disable this policy setting, log files are not generated.

If you do not configure this setting, application-based settings are used.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Turn on session logging*
-   GP name: *RA_Logging*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-solicitedremoteassistance"></a>**RemoteAssistance/SolicitedRemoteAssistance**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to turn on or turn off Solicited (Ask for) Remote Assistance on this computer.

If you enable this policy setting, users on this computer can use email or file transfer to ask someone for help. Also, users can use instant messaging programs to allow connections to this computer, and you can configure additional Remote Assistance settings.

If you disable this policy setting, users on this computer cannot use email or file transfer to ask someone for help. Also, users cannot use instant messaging programs to allow connections to this computer.

If you do not configure this policy setting, users can turn on or turn off Solicited (Ask for) Remote Assistance themselves in System Properties in Control Panel. Users can also configure Remote Assistance settings.

If you enable this policy setting, you have two ways to allow helpers to provide Remote Assistance: "Allow helpers to only view the computer" or "Allow helpers to remotely control the computer."

The "Maximum ticket time" policy setting sets a limit on the amount of time that a Remote Assistance invitation created by using email or file transfer can remain open.

The "Select the method for sending email invitations" setting specifies which email standard to use to send Remote Assistance invitations. Depending on your email program, you can use either the Mailto standard (the invitation recipient connects through an Internet link) or the SMAPI (Simple MAPI) standard (the invitation is attached to your email message). This policy setting is not available in Windows Vista since SMAPI is the only method supported.

If you enable this policy setting you should also enable appropriate firewall exceptions to allow Remote Assistance communications.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Configure Solicited Remote Assistance*
-   GP name: *RA_Solicit*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="remoteassistance-unsolicitedremoteassistance"></a>**RemoteAssistance/UnsolicitedRemoteAssistance**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to turn on or turn off Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance on this computer.

If you enable this policy setting, users on this computer can get help from their corporate technical support staff using Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance.

If you disable this policy setting, users on this computer cannot get help from their corporate technical support staff using Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance.

If you do not configure this policy setting, users on this computer cannot get help from their corporate technical support staff using Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance.

If you enable this policy setting, you have two ways to allow helpers to provide Remote Assistance: "Allow helpers to only view the computer" or "Allow helpers to remotely control the computer." When you configure this policy setting, you also specify the list of users or user groups that are allowed to offer remote assistance.

To configure the list of helpers, click "Show." In the window that opens, you can enter the names of the helpers. Add each user or group one by one. When you enter the name of the helper user or user groups, use the following format:

`<Domain Name>\<User Name>` or

`<Domain Name>\<Group Name>`

If you enable this policy setting, you should also enable firewall exceptions to allow Remote Assistance communications. The firewall exceptions required for Offer (Unsolicited) Remote Assistance depend on the version of Windows you are running.

Windows Vista and later

Enable the Remote Assistance exception for the domain profile. The exception must contain:
Port 135:TCP
%WINDIR%\System32\msra.exe
%WINDIR%\System32\raserver.exe

Windows XP with Service Pack 2 (SP2) and Windows XP Professional x64 Edition with Service Pack 1 (SP1)

Port 135:TCP
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpsvc.exe
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpctr.exe
%WINDIR%\System32\Sessmgr.exe

For computers running Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1 (SP1)

Port 135:TCP
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpsvc.exe
%WINDIR%\PCHealth\HelpCtr\Binaries\Helpctr.exe
Allow Remote Desktop Exception

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Configure Offer Remote Assistance*
-   GP name: *RA_Unsolicit*
-   GP path: *System/Remote Assistance*
-   GP ADMX file name: *remoteassistance.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
