windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-windowspowershell.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - WindowsPowerShell
description: Policy CSP - WindowsPowerShell
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - WindowsPowerShell


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## WindowsPowerShell policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#windowspowershell-turnonpowershellscriptblocklogging">WindowsPowerShell/TurnOnPowerShellScriptBlockLogging</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="windowspowershell-turnonpowershellscriptblocklogging"></a>**WindowsPowerShell/TurnOnPowerShellScriptBlockLogging**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting enables logging of all PowerShell script input to the Microsoft-Windows-PowerShell/Operational event log. If you enable this policy setting,
Windows PowerShell will log the processing of commands, script blocks, functions, and scripts - whether invoked interactively, or through automation.

If you disable this policy setting, logging of PowerShell script input is disabled.

If you enable the Script Block Invocation Logging, PowerShell additionally logs events when invocation of a command, script block, function, or script
starts or stops. Enabling Invocation Logging generates a high volume of event logs.

Note: This policy setting exists under both Computer Configuration and User Configuration in the Group Policy Editor. The Computer Configuration policy setting takes precedence over the User Configuration policy setting.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Turn on PowerShell Script Block Logging*
-   GP name: *EnableScriptBlockLogging*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Windows PowerShell*
-   GP ADMX file name: *PowerShellExecutionPolicy.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-windowspowershell.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - WindowsPowerShell
description: Policy CSP - WindowsPowerShell
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 04/16/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - WindowsPowerShell


<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## WindowsPowerShell policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#windowspowershell-turnonpowershellscriptblocklogging">WindowsPowerShell/TurnOnPowerShellScriptBlockLogging</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="windowspowershell-turnonpowershellscriptblocklogging"></a>**WindowsPowerShell/TurnOnPowerShellScriptBlockLogging**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User
> * Device

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting enables logging of all PowerShell script input to the Microsoft-Windows-PowerShell/Operational event log. If you enable this policy setting,
Windows PowerShell will log the processing of commands, script blocks, functions, and scripts - whether invoked interactively, or through automation.

If you disable this policy setting, logging of PowerShell script input is disabled.

If you enable the Script Block Invocation Logging, PowerShell additionally logs events when invocation of a command, script block, function, or script
starts or stops. Enabling Invocation Logging generates a high volume of event logs.

Note: This policy setting exists under both Computer Configuration and User Configuration in the Group Policy Editor. The Computer Configuration policy setting takes precedence over the User Configuration policy setting.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Turn on PowerShell Script Block Logging*
-   GP name: *EnableScriptBlockLogging*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Windows PowerShell*
-   GP ADMX file name: *PowerShellExecutionPolicy.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
