windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-attachmentmanager.md, before:

---
title: Policy CSP - AttachmentManager
description: Policy CSP - AttachmentManager
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 03/12/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - AttachmentManager



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## AttachmentManager policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#attachmentmanager-donotpreservezoneinformation">AttachmentManager/DoNotPreserveZoneInformation</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#attachmentmanager-hidezoneinfomechanism">AttachmentManager/HideZoneInfoMechanism</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#attachmentmanager-notifyantivirusprograms">AttachmentManager/NotifyAntivirusPrograms</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="attachmentmanager-donotpreservezoneinformation"></a>**AttachmentManager/DoNotPreserveZoneInformation**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to manage whether Windows marks file attachments with information about their zone of origin (such as restricted, Internet, intranet, local). This requires NTFS in order to function correctly, and will fail without notice on FAT32. By not preserving the zone information, Windows cannot make proper risk assessments.

If you enable this policy setting, Windows does not mark file attachments with their zone information.

If you disable this policy setting, Windows marks file attachments with their zone information.

If you do not configure this policy setting, Windows marks file attachments with their zone information.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Do not preserve zone information in file attachments*
-   GP name: *AM_MarkZoneOnSavedAtttachments*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Attachment Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *AttachmentManager.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="attachmentmanager-hidezoneinfomechanism"></a>**AttachmentManager/HideZoneInfoMechanism**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to manage whether users can manually remove the zone information from saved file attachments by clicking the Unblock button in the file's property sheet or by using a check box in the security warning dialog. Removing the zone information allows users to open potentially dangerous file attachments that Windows has blocked users from opening.

If you enable this policy setting, Windows hides the check box and Unblock button.

If you disable this policy setting, Windows shows the check box and Unblock button.

If you do not configure this policy setting, Windows hides the check box and Unblock button.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Hide mechanisms to remove zone information*
-   GP name: *AM_RemoveZoneInfo*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Attachment Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *AttachmentManager.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="attachmentmanager-notifyantivirusprograms"></a>**AttachmentManager/NotifyAntivirusPrograms**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to manage the behavior for notifying registered antivirus programs. If multiple programs are registered, they will all be notified. If the registered antivirus program already performs on-access checks or scans files as they arrive on the computer's email server, additional calls would be redundant. 

If you enable this policy setting, Windows tells the registered antivirus program to scan the file when a user opens a file attachment. If the antivirus program fails, the attachment is blocked from being opened.

If you disable this policy setting, Windows does not call the registered antivirus programs when file attachments are opened.

If you do not configure this policy setting, Windows does not call the registered antivirus programs when file attachments are opened.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Notify antivirus programs when opening attachments*
-   GP name: *AM_CallIOfficeAntiVirus*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Attachment Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *AttachmentManager.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnote:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.

<!--/Policies-->

Commit message:

Moved Footnotes to the appropriate tags

windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-attachmentmanager.md, after:

---
title: Policy CSP - AttachmentManager
description: Policy CSP - AttachmentManager
ms.author: dansimp
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: w10
ms.technology: windows
author: manikadhiman
ms.date: 03/12/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Policy CSP - AttachmentManager



<hr/>

<!--Policies-->
## AttachmentManager policies  

<dl>
  <dd>
    <a href="#attachmentmanager-donotpreservezoneinformation">AttachmentManager/DoNotPreserveZoneInformation</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#attachmentmanager-hidezoneinfomechanism">AttachmentManager/HideZoneInfoMechanism</a>
  </dd>
  <dd>
    <a href="#attachmentmanager-notifyantivirusprograms">AttachmentManager/NotifyAntivirusPrograms</a>
  </dd>
</dl>


<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="attachmentmanager-donotpreservezoneinformation"></a>**AttachmentManager/DoNotPreserveZoneInformation**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to manage whether Windows marks file attachments with information about their zone of origin (such as restricted, Internet, intranet, local). This requires NTFS in order to function correctly, and will fail without notice on FAT32. By not preserving the zone information, Windows cannot make proper risk assessments.

If you enable this policy setting, Windows does not mark file attachments with their zone information.

If you disable this policy setting, Windows marks file attachments with their zone information.

If you do not configure this policy setting, Windows marks file attachments with their zone information.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Do not preserve zone information in file attachments*
-   GP name: *AM_MarkZoneOnSavedAtttachments*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Attachment Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *AttachmentManager.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="attachmentmanager-hidezoneinfomechanism"></a>**AttachmentManager/HideZoneInfoMechanism**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to manage whether users can manually remove the zone information from saved file attachments by clicking the Unblock button in the file's property sheet or by using a check box in the security warning dialog. Removing the zone information allows users to open potentially dangerous file attachments that Windows has blocked users from opening.

If you enable this policy setting, Windows hides the check box and Unblock button.

If you disable this policy setting, Windows shows the check box and Unblock button.

If you do not configure this policy setting, Windows hides the check box and Unblock button.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Hide mechanisms to remove zone information*
-   GP name: *AM_RemoveZoneInfo*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Attachment Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *AttachmentManager.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->

<hr/>

<!--Policy-->
<a href="" id="attachmentmanager-notifyantivirusprograms"></a>**AttachmentManager/NotifyAntivirusPrograms**  

<!--SupportedSKUs-->
<table>
<tr>
	<th>Home</th>
	<th>Pro</th>
	<th>Business</th>
	<th>Enterprise</th>
	<th>Education</th>
	<th>Mobile</th>
	<th>Mobile Enterprise</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/checkmark.png" alt="check mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
	<td><img src="images/crossmark.png" alt="cross mark" /></td>
</tr>
</table>

<!--/SupportedSKUs-->
<!--Scope-->
[Scope](./policy-configuration-service-provider.md#policy-scope):

> [!div class = "checklist"]
> * User

<hr/>

<!--/Scope-->
<!--Description-->
This policy setting allows you to manage the behavior for notifying registered antivirus programs. If multiple programs are registered, they will all be notified. If the registered antivirus program already performs on-access checks or scans files as they arrive on the computer's email server, additional calls would be redundant. 

If you enable this policy setting, Windows tells the registered antivirus program to scan the file when a user opens a file attachment. If the antivirus program fails, the attachment is blocked from being opened.

If you disable this policy setting, Windows does not call the registered antivirus programs when file attachments are opened.

If you do not configure this policy setting, Windows does not call the registered antivirus programs when file attachments are opened.

<!--/Description-->
> [!TIP]
> This is an ADMX-backed policy and requires a special SyncML format to enable or disable.  For details, see [Understanding ADMX-backed policies](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md).
> 
> You must specify the data type in the SyncML as &lt;Format&gt;chr&lt;/Format&gt;. For an example SyncML, refer to [Enabling a policy](./understanding-admx-backed-policies.md#enabling-a-policy).
> 
> The payload of the SyncML must be XML-encoded; for this XML encoding, there are a variety of online encoders that you can use. To avoid encoding the payload, you can use CDATA if your MDM supports it.  For more information, see [CDATA Sections](http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-cdata-sect).

<!--ADMXBacked-->
ADMX Info:  
-   GP English name: *Notify antivirus programs when opening attachments*
-   GP name: *AM_CallIOfficeAntiVirus*
-   GP path: *Windows Components/Attachment Manager*
-   GP ADMX file name: *AttachmentManager.admx*

<!--/ADMXBacked-->
<!--/Policy-->
<hr/>

Footnotes:

-   1 - Added in Windows 10, version 1607.
-   2 - Added in Windows 10, version 1703.
-   3 - Added in Windows 10, version 1709.
-   4 - Added in Windows 10, version 1803.
-   5 - Added in Windows 10, version 1809.
-   6 - Added in Windows 10, version 1903.

<!--/Policies-->
