windows/keep-secure/advanced-features-windows-defender-advacned-threat-protection.md, before:

---
title: Enable advanced features in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection
description: Enable advanced features such as block file in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection.
keywords: advanced features, preferences setup, block file
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
localizationpriority: high
---
# Enable advanced features in Windows Defender ATP

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Enterprise
- Windows 10 Education
- Windows 10 Pro
- Windows 10 Pro Education
- Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product, which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>

1. In the navigation pane, select **Preferences setup** > **Advanced features**.
2. Select the advanced feature you want to configure and toggle the setting between **On** and **Off**.
3. Click **Save preferences**.

## Related topics
- [Update general settings](general-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Enable the preview experience](preview-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Configure email notifications](configure-email-notifications-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Enable the custom threat intelligence application](enable-custom-ti-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)

Commit message:

remove custom ti, update toc to remove word enable

windows/keep-secure/advanced-features-windows-defender-advacned-threat-protection.md, after:

---
title: Turn on advanced features in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection
description: Turn on advanced features such as block file in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection.
keywords: advanced features, preferences setup, block file
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
localizationpriority: high
---
# Turn on advanced features in Windows Defender ATP

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Enterprise
- Windows 10 Education
- Windows 10 Pro
- Windows 10 Pro Education
- Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product, which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>

1. In the navigation pane, select **Preferences setup** > **Advanced features**.
2. Select the advanced feature you want to configure and toggle the setting between **On** and **Off**.
3. Click **Save preferences**.

## Related topics
- [Update general settings](general-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Turn on the preview experience](preview-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Configure email notifications](configure-email-notifications-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
