windows/keep-secure/portal-overview-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, before:

---
title: Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal overview
description: Use the Windows Defender ATP portal to monitor your enterprise network and assist in responding to alerts to potential advanced persistent threat (APT) activity or data breaches.
keywords: Windows Defender ATP portal, portal, cybersecurity threat intelligence, dashboard, alerts queue, machines view, preferences setup, client onboarding, advanced attacks
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: W10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: DulceMV
---

# Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal overview

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Insider Preview

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>


Enterprise security teams can use the portal to monitor and assist in responding to alerts of potential advanced persistent threat (APT) activity or data breaches.

You can use the [Windows Defender ATP portal](https://seville.windows.com/) to:
- View, sort, and triage alerts from your endpoints
- Search for more information on observed indicators such as files and IP Addresses
- Change Windows Defender ATP settings, including time zone and alert suppression rules

## Windows Defender ATP portal
When you open the portal, you’ll see the main areas of the application:
- (1) Settings
- (2) Navigation pane
- (3) Main portal
- (4) Search bar


 ![Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal](images/portal-image.png)

You can navigate through the portal using the menu options available in all sections. Refer to the following table for a description of each section.

Area | Description
:---|:---
(1) Settings | Provides access to configuration settings such as time zone, alert suppression rules, and license information.
(2) Navigation pane | Use the navigation pane to move between the **Dashboard**, **Alerts queue**, **Machines view**, **Preferences setup**, and **Client onboarding**.
**Dashboard**	| Provides clickable tiles that open detailed information on various alerts that have been detected in your organization.
**Alerts queue** | Enables you to view separate queues of new, in progress, and resolved alerts.
**Machines view**| Displays the list of machines that are onboarded to Windows Defender ATP, some information about them, and the corresponding number of alerts.
**Preferences setup**|	Shows the settings you selected during [service onboarding](service-onboarding-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md), and lets you update your industry preferences and retention policy period.
**Client onboarding**|	Allows you to download the onboarding configuration package.
(3) Main portal| Main area where you will see the different views such as the Dashboard, Alerts queue, and Machines view.
(4) Search | Search for machines, files, external IP Addresses, or domains across endpoints. The drop-down combo box allows you to select the entity type.

## Windows Defender ATP icons
The following table provides information on the icons used all throughout the portal:

Icon | Description
:---|:---
![Alert icon](images/alert-icon.png)| Alert – Indication of an activity correlated with advanced attacks.
![Detection icon](images/detection-icon.png)| Detection – Indication of a malware threat detection.
![Active threat icon](images/active-threat-icon.png)| Active threat – Threats actively executing at the time of detection.
![Remediated icon](images/remediated-icon.png)| Remediated – Threat removed from the machine
![Not remediated icon](images/not-remediated-icon.png)| Not remediated – Threat not removed from the machine.


### Related topic
[Use the Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal](use-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)

Commit message:

add note to portal overview re:Defender must be used for malware feature, edit tile label

windows/keep-secure/portal-overview-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, after:

---
title: Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal overview
description: Use the Windows Defender ATP portal to monitor your enterprise network and assist in responding to alerts to potential advanced persistent threat (APT) activity or data breaches.
keywords: Windows Defender ATP portal, portal, cybersecurity threat intelligence, dashboard, alerts queue, machines view, preferences setup, client onboarding, advanced attacks
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: W10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: DulceMV
---

# Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal overview

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Insider Preview

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>


Enterprise security teams can use the portal to monitor and assist in responding to alerts of potential advanced persistent threat (APT) activity or data breaches.

You can use the [Windows Defender ATP portal](https://seville.windows.com/) to:
- View, sort, and triage alerts from your endpoints
- Search for more information on observed indicators such as files and IP Addresses
- Change Windows Defender ATP settings, including time zone and alert suppression rules

## Windows Defender ATP portal
When you open the portal, you’ll see the main areas of the application:
- (1) Settings
- (2) Navigation pane
- (3) Main portal
- (4) Search bar


 ![Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal](images/portal-image.png)

> **Note**&nbsp;&nbsp; Malware related detections will only appear if your endpoints are using [Windows Defender](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/mt622091(v=vs.85).aspx) as the default real-time protection antimalware product.

You can navigate through the portal using the menu options available in all sections. Refer to the following table for a description of each section.

Area | Description
:---|:---
(1) Settings | Provides access to configuration settings such as time zone, alert suppression rules, and license information.
(2) Navigation pane | Use the navigation pane to move between the **Dashboard**, **Alerts queue**, **Machines view**, **Preferences setup**, and **Client onboarding**.
**Dashboard**	| Provides clickable tiles that open detailed information on various alerts that have been detected in your organization.
**Alerts queue** | Enables you to view separate queues of new, in progress, and resolved alerts.
**Machines view**| Displays the list of machines that are onboarded to Windows Defender ATP, some information about them, and the corresponding number of alerts.
**Preferences setup**|	Shows the settings you selected during [service onboarding](service-onboarding-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md), and lets you update your industry preferences and retention policy period.
**Client onboarding**|	Allows you to download the onboarding configuration package.
(3) Main portal| Main area where you will see the different views such as the Dashboard, Alerts queue, and Machines view.
(4) Search | Search for machines, files, external IP Addresses, or domains across endpoints. The drop-down combo box allows you to select the entity type.

## Windows Defender ATP icons
The following table provides information on the icons used all throughout the portal:

Icon | Description
:---|:---
![Alert icon](images/alert-icon.png)| Alert – Indication of an activity correlated with advanced attacks.
![Detection icon](images/detection-icon.png)| Detection – Indication of a malware threat detection.
![Active threat icon](images/active-threat-icon.png)| Active threat – Threats actively executing at the time of detection.
![Remediated icon](images/remediated-icon.png)| Remediated – Threat removed from the machine
![Not remediated icon](images/not-remediated-icon.png)| Not remediated – Threat not removed from the machine.


### Related topic
[Use the Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection portal](use-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
