windows/keep-secure/preview-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, before:

---
title: Enable the preview experience in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection
description: Enable the preview experience in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection to try upcoming features.
keywords: advanced features, preferences setup, block file
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
localizationpriority: high
---
# Enable the preview experience in Windows Defender ATP

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Enterprise
- Windows 10 Education
- Windows 10 Pro
- Windows 10 Pro Education
- Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product, which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>

Enable the preview experience setting to be among the first to try upcoming features.

1. In the navigation pane, select **Preferences setup** > **Preview experience**.
2. Toggle the setting between **On** and **Off** and select **Save preferences**.

## Related topics
- [Update general settings](general-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Enable advanced features](advanced-features-windows-defender-advacned-threat-protection.md)
- [Configure email notifications](configure-email-notifications-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Enable the custom threat intelligence application](enable-custom-ti-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)

Commit message:

remove custom ti, update toc to remove word enable

windows/keep-secure/preview-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, after:

---
title: Turn on the preview experience in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection
description: Turn on the preview experience in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection to try upcoming features.
keywords: advanced features, preferences setup, block file
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
localizationpriority: high
---
# Turn on the preview experience in Windows Defender ATP

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Enterprise
- Windows 10 Education
- Windows 10 Pro
- Windows 10 Pro Education
- Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product, which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>

Turn on the preview experience setting to be among the first to try upcoming features.

1. In the navigation pane, select **Preferences setup** > **Preview experience**.
2. Toggle the setting between **On** and **Off** and select **Save preferences**.

## Related topics
- [Update general settings](general-settings-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
- [Turn on advanced features](advanced-features-windows-defender-advacned-threat-protection.md)
- [Configure email notifications](configure-email-notifications-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md)
