windows/keep-secure/respond-file-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, before:

---
title: Respond to file related alerts in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection
description: Respond to file related alerts by stopping and quarantining a file or blocking a file and checking activity details.
keywords: respond, isolate, isolate machine, collect investigation package, action center, deep analyis
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
localizationpriority: high
---

# Respond to file related alerts in Windows Defender ATP

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Enterprise
- Windows 10 Education
- Windows 10 Pro
- Windows 10 Pro Education
- Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product, which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>

You can take action on file related alerts to quickly respond to detected attacks by stopping and quarantining files or blocking a file. After taking action on files, you can check activity details on the Action center.

>[!NOTE]
> These response actions are only available for machines on Windows 10, version  1703.

You can also submit files for deep analysis to run the file in a secure cloud sandbox. When the analysis is complete, you'll get a detailed report that provides information about the behavior of the file.

## Stop and quarantine files in your network
You can contain an attack in your organization by stopping the malicious process and quarantine the file where it was observed.

The **Stop & Quarantine File** action includes stopping running processes, quarantining the files, and deleting persistency such as registry keys.

The action takes effect on machines with the latest Windows 10 Insider Preview build where the file was observed in the last 30 days.

### Stop and quarantine files
1.	Select the file you want to stop and quarantine. You can select a file from any of the following views or use the Search box:

    - **Alerts** - click the corresponding links from the Description or Details in the Alert timeline
    - **Search box** - select File from the drop-down menu and enter the file name

2.	Open the **Action menu** and select **Stop & Quarantine File**.
    ![Image of stop and quarantine file action](images/atp-stop-quarantine-file.png)

3. Type a comment (optional), and select **Yes** to take action on the file. The comment will be saved in the Action center for reference.

  The Action center shows the submission information:
    ![Image of stop and quarantine file action center](images/atp-stopnquarantine-file.png)

    -	**Submission time** – Shows when the action was submitted.
    -	**Submitting user** – Shows who submitted the action on the file. You can view the comments provided by the user by selecting the information icon.
    -	**Pending** – Shows the number of machines where the file is yet to be stopped and quarantined from. This can take time for cases when the machine is offline or not connected to the network.
    -	**Success** – Shows the number of machines where the file has been stopped and quarantined.
    -	**Failed** – Shows the number of machines where the action failed and details about the failure.

4. Select any of the status indicators to view more information about the action. For example, select **Failed** to see where the action failed.

**Notification on machine user**:</br>
When the file is being removed from an endpoint, the following notification is shown:

![Image of notification on machine user](images/atp-notification-file.png)

In the machine timeline, a new event is added for each machine where a file was stopped and quarantined.

>[!NOTE]
>The **Action** button is turned off for files signed by Microsoft as well as trusted third-party publishers to prevent the removal of critical system files and files used by important applications.

![Image of action button turned off](images/atp-file-action.png)

For prevalent files in the organization, a warning is shown before an action is implemented to validate that the operation is intended.

### Remove file from quarantine
You can roll back and remove a file from quarantine if you’ve determined that it’s clean after an investigation. Run the following command on each machine where the file was quarantined.

1.	Open an elevated command-line prompt on the endpoint:

    a.	Go to **Start** and type cmd.

    b.	Right-click **Command prompt** and select **Run as administrator**.

2.	Enter the following command, and press **Enter**:
 ```
 “%ProgramFiles%\Windows Defender\MpCmdRun.exe” -Restore -Name EUS:Win32/CustomEnterpriseBlock –All
 ```
    >[!NOTE]
    >Windows Defender ATP will remove all files that were quarantined on this machine in the last 30 days.

## Block files in your network
You can prevent further propagation of an attack in your organization by banning potentially malicious files or suspected malware. If you know a potentially malicious file, you can block it. This operation will prevent it from being read, written, or executed on machines in your organization.

>[!NOTE]
>This feature is only available if your organization uses Windows Defender and Cloud-based protection is enabled.  For more information, see [Manage cloud-based protection](configure-windows-defender-in-windows-10.md). </br></br>
This feature is designed to prevent suspected malware (or potentially malicious files) from being downloaded from the web. The coverage will be extended over time. The action takes effect on machines with the latest Windows 10 Insider Preview build.

### Enable the block file feature
1.	In the navigation pane, select **Preference Setup** > **Advanced features** > **Block file**.

2.	Toggle the setting between **On** and **Off** and select **Save preferences**.

  ![Image of preferences setup](images/atp-preferences-setup.png)

3. Type a comment (optional) and select **Yes** to take action on the file.
The Action center shows the submission information:

  ![Image of block file](images/atp-blockfile.png)

  - **Submission time** – Shows when the action was submitted.
  -	**Submitting user** - Shows who submitted the action on the file. You can view the comments provided by the user by selecting the information icon.
  -	**Status** -Indicates whether the file was added to or removed from the blacklist.

When the file is blocked, there will be a new event in the machine timeline.</br>

**Notification on machine user**:</br>
When a file is being blocked on the endpoint, the following notification is displayed to inform the user that the file was blocked:

![Image of notification on machine user](images/atp-notification-file.png)

>[!NOTE]
>The **Action** button is turned off for files signed by Microsoft to prevent negative impact on machines in your organization caused by the removal of files that might be related to the operating system.

![Image of action button turned off](images/atp-file-action.png)

For prevalent files in the organization, a warning is shown before an action is implemented to validate that the operation is intended.

### Remove file from blocked list
1.	Select the file you want to remove from the blocked list. You can select a file from any of the following views or use the Search box:

  -	**Alerts** - Click the file links from the Description or Details in the Alert timeline
  -	**Machines view** - Click the file links in the Description or Details columns in the Observed on machine section
  -	**Search box** - Select File from the drop-down menu and enter the file name

2.	Open the **Actions** menu and select **Remove file from blocked list**.

  ![Image of remove file from blocked list](images/atp-remove-blocked-file.png)

3. Type a comment and select **Yes** to take action on the file. The file will be allowed to run in the organization.


## Check activity details in Action center
The  **Action center** provides information on actions that were taken on a machine or file. You’ll be able to view the details on the last action that were taken on a file such as stopped and quarantined files or blocked files.

![Image of action center with information](images/atp-action-center-with-info.png)

## Deep analysis
Cyber security investigations are typically triggered by an alert. Alerts are related to one or more observed files that are often new or unknown. Clicking a file takes you to the file view where you can see the file's metadata. To enrich the data related to the file, you can submit the file for deep analysis.

The deep analysis feature executes a file in a secure, fully instrumented cloud environment. Deep analysis results show the file's activities, observed behaviors, and associated artifacts, such as dropped files, registry modifications, and communication with IPs.
Deep analysis currently supports extensive analysis of portable executable (PE) files (including _.exe_ and _.dll_ files).

Deep analysis of a file takes several minutes. When the file analysis is complete, results are made available in the File view page, under a new **Deep analysis summary** section. The summary includes a list of observed *behaviors*, some of which can indicate malicious activity, and *observables*, including contacted IPs and files created on the disk.

Results of deep analysis are matched against threat intelligence and any matches will generate appropriate alerts.

### Submit files for analysis

Use the deep analysis feature to investigate the details of any file, usually during an investigation of an alert or for any other reason where you suspect malicious behavior. This feature is available in the context of the file view.

In the file's page, **Submit for deep analysis** is enabled when the file is available in the Windows Defender ATP backend sample collection or if it was observed on a Windows 10 machine that supports submitting to deep analysis.

> [!NOTE]
> Only files from Windows 10 can be automatically collected.

You can also manually submit a sample through the [Malware Protection Center Portal](https://www.microsoft.com/security/portal/submission/submit.aspx) if the file was not observed on a Windows 10 machine, and wait for **Submit for deep analysis** button to become available.

> [!NOTE]
> Due to backend processing flows in the Malware Protection Center Portal, there could be up to 10 minutes of latency between file submission and availability of the deep analysis feature in Windows Defender ATP.

When the sample is collected, Windows Defender ATP runs the file in is a secure environment and creates a detailed report of observed behaviors and associated artifacts, such as files dropped on machines, communication to IPs, and registry modifications.

**Submit files for deep analysis:**

1. Select the file that you want to submit for deep analysis. You can select or search a file from any of the following views:
  - Alerts - click the file links from the **Description** or **Details** in the Alert timeline
  - **Machines View** - click the file links from the **Description** or **Details** in the **Machine in organization** section
  - Search box - select **File** from the drop-down menu and enter the file name
2. In the **Deep analysis** section of the file view, click **Submit**.

![You can only submit PE files in the file details seciton](images/submit-file.png)

>**Note**&nbsp;&nbsp;Only PE files are supported, including _.exe_ and _.dll_ files

A progress bar is displayed and provides information on the different stages of the analysis. You can then view the report when the analysis is done.

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on machine availability, sample collection time can vary. There is a 3-hour timeout for sample collection. The collection will fail and the operation will abort if there is no online Windows 10 machine reporting at that time. You can re-submit files for deep analysis to get fresh data on the file.

### View deep analysis reports

View the deep analysis report that Windows Defender ATP provides to see the details of the deep analysis that was conducted on the file you submitted. This feature is available in the file view context.

You can view the comprehensive report that provides details on:

- Observed behaviors
- Associated artifacts

The details provided can help you investigate if there are indications of a potential attack.


1. Select the file you submitted for deep analysis.
2. Click **See the report below**. Information on the analysis is displayed.

![The deep analysis report shows detailed information across a number of categories](images/analysis-results.png)

### Troubleshooting deep analysis

If you encounter a problem when trying to submit a file, try each of the following troubleshooting steps.


1. Ensure that the file in question is a PE file. PE files typically have _.exe_ or _.dll_ extensions (executable programs or applications).
2. Ensure the service has access to the file, that it still exists, and has not been corrupted or modified.
3. You can wait a short while and try to submit the file again, in case the queue is full or there was a temporary connection or communication error.
4. Verify the policy setting enables sample collection and try to submit the file again.

  a. Change the following registry entry and values to change the policy on specific endpoints:
 ```
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows Advanced Threat Protection
  Value = 0 - block sample collection
  Value = 1 - allow sample collection
```
5. Change the organizational unit through the Group Policy. For more information, see [Configure with Group Policy](configure-endpoints-gp-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md).
6. If these steps do not resolve the issue, contact [winatp@microsoft.com](mailto:winatp@microsoft.com).

> [!NOTE]
> If the value *AllowSampleCollection* is not available, the client will allow sample collection by default.

Commit message:

add take response topic, rename topics, update toc

windows/keep-secure/respond-file-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md, after:

---
title: Take response actions on a file in Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection
description: Take response actions on file related alerts by stopping and quarantining a file or blocking a file and checking activity details.
keywords: respond, stop and quarantine, block file, deep analysis
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
author: mjcaparas
localizationpriority: high
---

# Take response actions on a file

**Applies to:**

- Windows 10 Enterprise
- Windows 10 Education
- Windows 10 Pro
- Windows 10 Pro Education
- Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)

<span style="color:#ED1C24;">[Some information relates to pre-released product, which may be substantially modified before it's commercially released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.]</span>

You can take action on file related alerts to quickly respond to detected attacks by stopping and quarantining files or blocking a file. After taking action on files, you can check activity details on the Action center.

>[!NOTE]
> These response actions are only available for machines on Windows 10, version  1703.

You can also submit files for deep analysis to run the file in a secure cloud sandbox. When the analysis is complete, you'll get a detailed report that provides information about the behavior of the file.

## Stop and quarantine files in your network
You can contain an attack in your organization by stopping the malicious process and quarantine the file where it was observed.

The **Stop & Quarantine File** action includes stopping running processes, quarantining the files, and deleting persistency such as registry keys.

The action takes effect on machines with the latest Windows 10 Insider Preview build where the file was observed in the last 30 days.

### Stop and quarantine files
1.	Select the file you want to stop and quarantine. You can select a file from any of the following views or use the Search box:

    - **Alerts** - click the corresponding links from the Description or Details in the Alert timeline
    - **Search box** - select File from the drop-down menu and enter the file name

2.	Open the **Action menu** and select **Stop & Quarantine File**.
    ![Image of stop and quarantine file action](images/atp-stop-quarantine-file.png)

3. Type a comment (optional), and select **Yes** to take action on the file. The comment will be saved in the Action center for reference.

  The Action center shows the submission information:
    ![Image of stop and quarantine file action center](images/atp-stopnquarantine-file.png)

    -	**Submission time** – Shows when the action was submitted.
    -	**Submitting user** – Shows who submitted the action on the file. You can view the comments provided by the user by selecting the information icon.
    -	**Pending** – Shows the number of machines where the file is yet to be stopped and quarantined from. This can take time for cases when the machine is offline or not connected to the network.
    -	**Success** – Shows the number of machines where the file has been stopped and quarantined.
    -	**Failed** – Shows the number of machines where the action failed and details about the failure.

4. Select any of the status indicators to view more information about the action. For example, select **Failed** to see where the action failed.

**Notification on machine user**:</br>
When the file is being removed from an endpoint, the following notification is shown:

![Image of notification on machine user](images/atp-notification-file.png)

In the machine timeline, a new event is added for each machine where a file was stopped and quarantined.

>[!NOTE]
>The **Action** button is turned off for files signed by Microsoft as well as trusted third-party publishers to prevent the removal of critical system files and files used by important applications.

![Image of action button turned off](images/atp-file-action.png)

For prevalent files in the organization, a warning is shown before an action is implemented to validate that the operation is intended.

### Remove file from quarantine
You can roll back and remove a file from quarantine if you’ve determined that it’s clean after an investigation. Run the following command on each machine where the file was quarantined.

1.	Open an elevated command-line prompt on the endpoint:

    a.	Go to **Start** and type cmd.

    b.	Right-click **Command prompt** and select **Run as administrator**.

2.	Enter the following command, and press **Enter**:
 ```
 “%ProgramFiles%\Windows Defender\MpCmdRun.exe” -Restore -Name EUS:Win32/CustomEnterpriseBlock –All
 ```
    >[!NOTE]
    >Windows Defender ATP will remove all files that were quarantined on this machine in the last 30 days.

## Block files in your network
You can prevent further propagation of an attack in your organization by banning potentially malicious files or suspected malware. If you know a potentially malicious file, you can block it. This operation will prevent it from being read, written, or executed on machines in your organization.

>[!NOTE]
>This feature is only available if your organization uses Windows Defender and Cloud-based protection is enabled.  For more information, see [Manage cloud-based protection](configure-windows-defender-in-windows-10.md). </br></br>
This feature is designed to prevent suspected malware (or potentially malicious files) from being downloaded from the web. The coverage will be extended over time. The action takes effect on machines with the latest Windows 10 Insider Preview build.

### Enable the block file feature
1.	In the navigation pane, select **Preference Setup** > **Advanced features** > **Block file**.

2.	Toggle the setting between **On** and **Off** and select **Save preferences**.

  ![Image of preferences setup](images/atp-preferences-setup.png)

3. Type a comment (optional) and select **Yes** to take action on the file.
The Action center shows the submission information:

  ![Image of block file](images/atp-blockfile.png)

  - **Submission time** – Shows when the action was submitted.
  -	**Submitting user** - Shows who submitted the action on the file. You can view the comments provided by the user by selecting the information icon.
  -	**Status** -Indicates whether the file was added to or removed from the blacklist.

When the file is blocked, there will be a new event in the machine timeline.</br>

**Notification on machine user**:</br>
When a file is being blocked on the endpoint, the following notification is displayed to inform the user that the file was blocked:

![Image of notification on machine user](images/atp-notification-file.png)

>[!NOTE]
>The **Action** button is turned off for files signed by Microsoft to prevent negative impact on machines in your organization caused by the removal of files that might be related to the operating system.

![Image of action button turned off](images/atp-file-action.png)

For prevalent files in the organization, a warning is shown before an action is implemented to validate that the operation is intended.

### Remove file from blocked list
1.	Select the file you want to remove from the blocked list. You can select a file from any of the following views or use the Search box:

  -	**Alerts** - Click the file links from the Description or Details in the Alert timeline
  -	**Machines view** - Click the file links in the Description or Details columns in the Observed on machine section
  -	**Search box** - Select File from the drop-down menu and enter the file name

2.	Open the **Actions** menu and select **Remove file from blocked list**.

  ![Image of remove file from blocked list](images/atp-remove-blocked-file.png)

3. Type a comment and select **Yes** to take action on the file. The file will be allowed to run in the organization.


## Check activity details in Action center
The  **Action center** provides information on actions that were taken on a machine or file. You’ll be able to view the details on the last action that were taken on a file such as stopped and quarantined files or blocked files.

![Image of action center with information](images/atp-action-center-with-info.png)

## Deep analysis
Cyber security investigations are typically triggered by an alert. Alerts are related to one or more observed files that are often new or unknown. Clicking a file takes you to the file view where you can see the file's metadata. To enrich the data related to the file, you can submit the file for deep analysis.

The deep analysis feature executes a file in a secure, fully instrumented cloud environment. Deep analysis results show the file's activities, observed behaviors, and associated artifacts, such as dropped files, registry modifications, and communication with IPs.
Deep analysis currently supports extensive analysis of portable executable (PE) files (including _.exe_ and _.dll_ files).

Deep analysis of a file takes several minutes. When the file analysis is complete, results are made available in the File view page, under a new **Deep analysis summary** section. The summary includes a list of observed *behaviors*, some of which can indicate malicious activity, and *observables*, including contacted IPs and files created on the disk.

Results of deep analysis are matched against threat intelligence and any matches will generate appropriate alerts.

### Submit files for analysis

Use the deep analysis feature to investigate the details of any file, usually during an investigation of an alert or for any other reason where you suspect malicious behavior. This feature is available in the context of the file view.

In the file's page, **Submit for deep analysis** is enabled when the file is available in the Windows Defender ATP backend sample collection or if it was observed on a Windows 10 machine that supports submitting to deep analysis.

> [!NOTE]
> Only files from Windows 10 can be automatically collected.

You can also manually submit a sample through the [Malware Protection Center Portal](https://www.microsoft.com/security/portal/submission/submit.aspx) if the file was not observed on a Windows 10 machine, and wait for **Submit for deep analysis** button to become available.

> [!NOTE]
> Due to backend processing flows in the Malware Protection Center Portal, there could be up to 10 minutes of latency between file submission and availability of the deep analysis feature in Windows Defender ATP.

When the sample is collected, Windows Defender ATP runs the file in is a secure environment and creates a detailed report of observed behaviors and associated artifacts, such as files dropped on machines, communication to IPs, and registry modifications.

**Submit files for deep analysis:**

1. Select the file that you want to submit for deep analysis. You can select or search a file from any of the following views:
  - Alerts - click the file links from the **Description** or **Details** in the Alert timeline
  - **Machines View** - click the file links from the **Description** or **Details** in the **Machine in organization** section
  - Search box - select **File** from the drop-down menu and enter the file name
2. In the **Deep analysis** section of the file view, click **Submit**.

![You can only submit PE files in the file details seciton](images/submit-file.png)

>**Note**&nbsp;&nbsp;Only PE files are supported, including _.exe_ and _.dll_ files

A progress bar is displayed and provides information on the different stages of the analysis. You can then view the report when the analysis is done.

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on machine availability, sample collection time can vary. There is a 3-hour timeout for sample collection. The collection will fail and the operation will abort if there is no online Windows 10 machine reporting at that time. You can re-submit files for deep analysis to get fresh data on the file.

### View deep analysis reports

View the deep analysis report that Windows Defender ATP provides to see the details of the deep analysis that was conducted on the file you submitted. This feature is available in the file view context.

You can view the comprehensive report that provides details on:

- Observed behaviors
- Associated artifacts

The details provided can help you investigate if there are indications of a potential attack.


1. Select the file you submitted for deep analysis.
2. Click **See the report below**. Information on the analysis is displayed.

![The deep analysis report shows detailed information across a number of categories](images/analysis-results.png)

### Troubleshooting deep analysis

If you encounter a problem when trying to submit a file, try each of the following troubleshooting steps.


1. Ensure that the file in question is a PE file. PE files typically have _.exe_ or _.dll_ extensions (executable programs or applications).
2. Ensure the service has access to the file, that it still exists, and has not been corrupted or modified.
3. You can wait a short while and try to submit the file again, in case the queue is full or there was a temporary connection or communication error.
4. Verify the policy setting enables sample collection and try to submit the file again.

  a. Change the following registry entry and values to change the policy on specific endpoints:
 ```
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows Advanced Threat Protection
  Value = 0 - block sample collection
  Value = 1 - allow sample collection
```
5. Change the organizational unit through the Group Policy. For more information, see [Configure with Group Policy](configure-endpoints-gp-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md).
6. If these steps do not resolve the issue, contact [winatp@microsoft.com](mailto:winatp@microsoft.com).

> [!NOTE]
> If the value *AllowSampleCollection* is not available, the client will allow sample collection by default.
