windows/whats-new/contribute-to-a-topic.md, before:

---
title: Edit an existing topic using the Contribute link
description: Instructions about how to edit an existing topic by using the Contribute link.
keywords: contribute, edit a topic
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: explore
ms.sitesec: library
---

# Edit an existing topic using the Contribute link
You can now make suggestions and update existing, public content with a GitHub account and a simple click of a link.

**To edit a topic**

1. All contributors who are ***not*** a Microsoft employee must [sign a Microsoft Contribution Licensing Agreement (CLA)](https://cla.microsoft.com/) before contributing to any Microsoft repositories. 
If you've already contributed to Microsoft repositories in the past, congratulations! 
You've already completed this step.

2. Go to the page on TechNet that you want to update, and then click **Contribute**.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Contribute link](images/contribute-link.png)

3. Log into (or sign up for) a GitHub account.
    
    You must have a GitHub account to get to the page that lets you edit a topic.

4. Click the **Pencil** icon (in the red box) to edit the content.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Pencil icon in the red box](images/pencil-icon.png)

5.	Using markdown language, make your changes to the topic. For info about how to edit content using markdown, see:
    - **If you're linked to the Microsoft organization in GitHub:** [Windows Open Publishing Guide Home](http://aka.ms/windows-op-guide)
    
    - **If you're external to Microsoft:** [Mastering Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) 

6.	Make your suggested change, and then click **Preview Changes** to make sure it looks correct.

       ![GitHub Web, showing the Preview Changes tab](images/preview-changes.png)

7. When you’re done editing the topic, scroll to the bottom of the page, and then click **Propose file change** to create a fork in your personal GitHub account.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Propose file change button](images/propose-file-change.png)

    The **Comparing changes** screen appears to see what the changes are between your fork and the original content.

8.	On the **Comparing changes** screen, you’ll see if there are any problems with the file you’re checking in.

    If there are no problems, you’ll see the message, **Able to merge**.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Comparing changes screen](images/compare-changes.png)

9.	Click **Create pull request**.

10.	Enter a title and description to give the approver the appropriate context about what’s in the request.

11.	Scroll to the bottom of the page, making sure that only your changed files are in this pull request. Otherwise, you could overwrite changes from other people.

12.	Click **Create pull request**.

    The pull request is sent to the writer of the topic and your edits are reviewed. If your request is accepted, updates are published to one of the following places:

    - [Windows 10](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows)
    - [Internet Explorer 11](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/internet-explorer)
    - [Microsoft Edge](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/microsoft-edge)
    - [Surface](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/surface)
    - [Surface Hub](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/surface-hub)
    - [Windows 10 for Education](https://technet.microsoft.com/edu/windows)
    - [Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/mdop)

Commit message:

Updated to add that the second create pull request actually submits the request

windows/whats-new/contribute-to-a-topic.md, after:

---
title: Edit an existing topic using the Contribute link
description: Instructions about how to edit an existing topic by using the Contribute link.
keywords: contribute, edit a topic
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: explore
ms.sitesec: library
---

# Edit an existing topic using the Contribute link
You can now make suggestions and update existing, public content with a GitHub account and a simple click of a link.

**To edit a topic**

1. All contributors who are ***not*** a Microsoft employee must [sign a Microsoft Contribution Licensing Agreement (CLA)](https://cla.microsoft.com/) before contributing to any Microsoft repositories. 
If you've already contributed to Microsoft repositories in the past, congratulations! 
You've already completed this step.

2. Go to the page on TechNet that you want to update, and then click **Contribute**.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Contribute link](images/contribute-link.png)

3. Log into (or sign up for) a GitHub account.
    
    You must have a GitHub account to get to the page that lets you edit a topic.

4. Click the **Pencil** icon (in the red box) to edit the content.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Pencil icon in the red box](images/pencil-icon.png)

5.	Using markdown language, make your changes to the topic. For info about how to edit content using markdown, see:
    - **If you're linked to the Microsoft organization in GitHub:** [Windows Open Publishing Guide Home](http://aka.ms/windows-op-guide)
    
    - **If you're external to Microsoft:** [Mastering Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) 

6.	Make your suggested change, and then click **Preview Changes** to make sure it looks correct.

       ![GitHub Web, showing the Preview Changes tab](images/preview-changes.png)

7. When you’re done editing the topic, scroll to the bottom of the page, and then click **Propose file change** to create a fork in your personal GitHub account.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Propose file change button](images/propose-file-change.png)

    The **Comparing changes** screen appears to see what the changes are between your fork and the original content.

8.	On the **Comparing changes** screen, you’ll see if there are any problems with the file you’re checking in.

    If there are no problems, you’ll see the message, **Able to merge**.

    ![GitHub Web, showing the Comparing changes screen](images/compare-changes.png)

9.	Click **Create pull request**.

10.	Enter a title and description to give the approver the appropriate context about what’s in the request.

11.	Scroll to the bottom of the page, making sure that only your changed files are in this pull request. Otherwise, you could overwrite changes from other people.

12.	Click **Create pull request** again to actually submit the pull request.

    The pull request is sent to the writer of the topic and your edits are reviewed. If your request is accepted, updates are published to one of the following places:

    - [Windows 10](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows)
    - [Internet Explorer 11](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/internet-explorer)
    - [Microsoft Edge](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/microsoft-edge)
    - [Surface](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/surface)
    - [Surface Hub](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/surface-hub)
    - [Windows 10 for Education](https://technet.microsoft.com/edu/windows)
    - [Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/mdop)
