windows/whats-new/whats-new-windows-10-version-1703.md, before:

---
title: What's new in Windows 10, version 1607 (Windows 10)
description: This topic lists new and updated topics in the What's new in Windows 10 documentation for Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile.
keywords: ["What's new in Windows 10", "Windows 10", "creators update"]
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: TrudyHa
localizationpriority: high
---

# What's new in Windows 10, version 1703

Below is a list of some of the new and updated features in Windows 10, version 1703 (also known as the Creators Update).

>[!NOTE]
>For release dates and servicing options for each version, see [Windows 10 release information](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/release-info).
 
## Configuration

### Windows Configuration Designer

Previously known as *Windows Imaging and Configuration Designer (ICD)*, the tool for creating provisioning packages is renamed **Windows Configuration Designer**. The new Windows Configuration Designer is available in Windows Store as an app. To run Windows Configuration Designer on earlier versions of Windows, you can still install Windows Configuration Designer from the Windows Assessment and Deployment Kit (ADK).

Windows Configuration Designer in Windows 10, version 1703, includes several new wizards to make it easier to create provisioning packages.

![wizards for desktop, mobile, kiosk, HoloLens, Surface Hub](images/wcd-options.png)

[Learn more about Windows Configuration Designer.](../configure/provisioning-packages.md)

### Lockdown Designer app

The Lockdown Designer app helps you configure and create a lockdown XML file to apply to devices running Windows 10 Mobile, and includes a remote simulation to help you determine the layout for tiles on the Start screen. Using Lockdown Designer is easier than [manually creating a lockdown XML file](../configure/lockdown-xml.md).

![Lockdown Designer app in Store](images/ldstore.png)

[Learn more about the Lockdown Designer app.](../configure/mobile-lockdown-designer.md)

### Windows Spotlight

The following new Group Policy and mobile device management (MDM) settings are added to help you configure Windows Spotlight user experiences:

- **Turn off the Windows Spotlight on Action Center**
- **Do not use diagnostic data for tailored experiences**
- **Turn off the Windows Welcome Experience**

[Learn more about Windows Spotlight.](../configure/windows-spotlight.md)

### Kiosk mode for Windows 10 Mobile

In Windows 10 Mobile, version 1703, [Apps Corner](https://support.microsoft.com/instantanswers/7959c547-aa80-5ff1-9097-1784b6894845/set-up-apps-corner) is removed. Enterprises can use [Enterprise Assigned Access to configure kiosk experiences](../configure/set-up-a-kiosk-for-windows-10-for-mobile-edition.md) on devices running Windows 10 Mobile. 

### Start and taskbar layout

Enterprises can apply a customized Start and tasbkar layout to devices running Windows 10 Pro, version 1703. 

Additional MDM policy settings are available for Start and taskbar layout. For details, see [Manage Windows 10 Start and taskbar layout](../configure/windows-10-start-layout-options-and-policies.md).

Previously, the customized taskbar could only be deployed using Group Policy or provisioning packages. Windows 10, version 1703, adds support for customized taskbars to [MDM](../configure/customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-mobile-device-management.md).

### Cortana at work

Cortana is Microsoft’s personal digital assistant, who helps busy people get things done, even while at work. Cortana has powerful configuration options, specifically optimized for your business. By signing in with an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) account, your employees can give Cortana access to their enterprise/work identity, while getting all the functionality Cortana provides to them outside of work.

Using Azure AD also means that you can remove an employee’s profile (for example, when an employee leaves your organization) while respecting Windows Information Protection (WIP) policies and ignoring enterprise content, such as emails, calendar items, and people lists that are marked as enterprise data.

## Security

### Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)
The following features have been added to Windows Defender ATP in Windows 10, version 1703.

- Detection

- Investigation

- Response 

### Device Guard and Credential Guard

Additional security qualifications for Device Guard and Credential Guard help protect vulnerabilities in UEFI runtime. 
For more information, see [Device Guard Requirements](../keep-secure/requirements-and-deployment-planning-guidelines-for-device-guard.md#device-guard-requirements-for-improved-security) and [Credential Guard Security Considerations](../keep-secure/credential-guard.md#security-considerations).

### Group Policy Security Options

The security setting [**Interactive logon: Display user information when the session is locked**](../keep-secure/interactive-logon-display-user-information-when-the-session-is-locked.md) has been updated to work in conjunction with the **Privacy** setting in **Settings** > **Accounts** > **Sign-in options**. 

## Learn more

- [Windows 10 release information](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/release-info)

Commit message:

insert windows defender atp content

windows/whats-new/whats-new-windows-10-version-1703.md, after:

---
title: What's new in Windows 10, version 1607 (Windows 10)
description: This topic lists new and updated topics in the What's new in Windows 10 documentation for Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile.
keywords: ["What's new in Windows 10", "Windows 10", "creators update"]
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
author: TrudyHa
localizationpriority: high
---

# What's new in Windows 10, version 1703

Below is a list of some of the new and updated features in Windows 10, version 1703 (also known as the Creators Update).

>[!NOTE]
>For release dates and servicing options for each version, see [Windows 10 release information](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/release-info).
 
## Configuration

### Windows Configuration Designer

Previously known as *Windows Imaging and Configuration Designer (ICD)*, the tool for creating provisioning packages is renamed **Windows Configuration Designer**. The new Windows Configuration Designer is available in Windows Store as an app. To run Windows Configuration Designer on earlier versions of Windows, you can still install Windows Configuration Designer from the Windows Assessment and Deployment Kit (ADK).

Windows Configuration Designer in Windows 10, version 1703, includes several new wizards to make it easier to create provisioning packages.

![wizards for desktop, mobile, kiosk, HoloLens, Surface Hub](images/wcd-options.png)

[Learn more about Windows Configuration Designer.](../configure/provisioning-packages.md)

### Lockdown Designer app

The Lockdown Designer app helps you configure and create a lockdown XML file to apply to devices running Windows 10 Mobile, and includes a remote simulation to help you determine the layout for tiles on the Start screen. Using Lockdown Designer is easier than [manually creating a lockdown XML file](../configure/lockdown-xml.md).

![Lockdown Designer app in Store](images/ldstore.png)

[Learn more about the Lockdown Designer app.](../configure/mobile-lockdown-designer.md)

### Windows Spotlight

The following new Group Policy and mobile device management (MDM) settings are added to help you configure Windows Spotlight user experiences:

- **Turn off the Windows Spotlight on Action Center**
- **Do not use diagnostic data for tailored experiences**
- **Turn off the Windows Welcome Experience**

[Learn more about Windows Spotlight.](../configure/windows-spotlight.md)

### Kiosk mode for Windows 10 Mobile

In Windows 10 Mobile, version 1703, [Apps Corner](https://support.microsoft.com/instantanswers/7959c547-aa80-5ff1-9097-1784b6894845/set-up-apps-corner) is removed. Enterprises can use [Enterprise Assigned Access to configure kiosk experiences](../configure/set-up-a-kiosk-for-windows-10-for-mobile-edition.md) on devices running Windows 10 Mobile.

### Start and taskbar layout

Enterprises can apply a customized Start and tasbkar layout to devices running Windows 10 Pro, version 1703.

Additional MDM policy settings are available for Start and taskbar layout. For details, see [Manage Windows 10 Start and taskbar layout](../configure/windows-10-start-layout-options-and-policies.md).

Previously, the customized taskbar could only be deployed using Group Policy or provisioning packages. Windows 10, version 1703, adds support for customized taskbars to [MDM](../configure/customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-mobile-device-management.md).

### Cortana at work

Cortana is Microsoft’s personal digital assistant, who helps busy people get things done, even while at work. Cortana has powerful configuration options, specifically optimized for your business. By signing in with an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) account, your employees can give Cortana access to their enterprise/work identity, while getting all the functionality Cortana provides to them outside of work.

Using Azure AD also means that you can remove an employee’s profile (for example, when an employee leaves your organization) while respecting Windows Information Protection (WIP) policies and ignoring enterprise content, such as emails, calendar items, and people lists that are marked as enterprise data.

## Security

### Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Windows Defender ATP)
The following features have been added to Windows Defender ATP in Windows 10, version 1703.

- **Response**<br>
  When detecting an attack, security response teams can now take immediate action to contain a breach:
  - [Take response actions on a machine](respond-machine-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) - Quickly respond to detected attacks by isolating machines or collecting an investigation package.
    - [Isolate machines from the network](respond-machine-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md#isolate-machines-from-the-network)
    - [Undo machine isolation](respond-machine-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md#undo-machine-isolation)
    - [Collect investigation package](respond-machine-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md#collect-investigation-package-from-machines)

  - [Take response actions on a file](respond-file-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) - Quickly respond to detected attacks by stopping and quarantining files or blocking a file.
    - [Stop and quarantine files in your network](respond-file-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md#stop-and-quarantine-files-in-your-network)
    - [Remove file from quarantine](respond-file-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md#remove-file-from-quarantine)
    - [Block files in your network](respond-file-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md#block-files-in-your-network)

- **Investigation**<br>
  Enterprise customers can now take advantage of the entire Windows security stack with Windows Defender Antivirus detections and Device Guard blocks being surfaced in the Windows Defender ATP portal.

  Other investigation capabilities include:

    - [Investigate a user account](investigate-user-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) - Identify user accounts with the most active alerts and investigate cases of potential compromised credentials.
    - [Alert process tree](investigate-alerts-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md#alert-process-tree) - Aggregates multiple detections and related events into a single view to reduce case resolution time.

- **Detection**<br>
  Windows Creators Update improves OS memory and kernel sensors to enable detection of attackers who are using in-memory and kernel-level attacks.

  Other detection capabilities include:
  - [Use the threat intelligence API to create custom alerts](use-custom-ti-windows-defender-advanced-threat-protection.md) - Understand threat intelligence concepts, enable the threat intel application, and create custom threat intelligence alerts for your organization.
  

### Device Guard and Credential Guard

Additional security qualifications for Device Guard and Credential Guard help protect vulnerabilities in UEFI runtime. 
For more information, see [Device Guard Requirements](../keep-secure/requirements-and-deployment-planning-guidelines-for-device-guard.md#device-guard-requirements-for-improved-security) and [Credential Guard Security Considerations](../keep-secure/credential-guard.md#security-considerations).

### Group Policy Security Options

The security setting [**Interactive logon: Display user information when the session is locked**](../keep-secure/interactive-logon-display-user-information-when-the-session-is-locked.md) has been updated to work in conjunction with the **Privacy** setting in **Settings** > **Accounts** > **Sign-in options**. 

## Learn more

- [Windows 10 release information](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/release-info)
