windows/manage/appv-install-the-appv-databases-and-convert-the-associated-security-identifiers-with-powershell.md, before:

---
title: How to Install the App-V Databases and Convert the Associated Security Identifiers by Using PowerShell (Windows 10)
description: How to Install the App-V Databases and Convert the Associated Security Identifiers by Using PowerShell
author: MaggiePucciEvans
ms.pagetype: mdop, appcompat, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
---


# How to Install the App-V Databases and Convert the Associated Security Identifiers by Using PowerShell


Use the following PowerShell procedure to convert any number of Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) user or machine accounts into formatted Security Identifiers (SIDs) both in the standard format and in the hexadecimal format used by Microsoft SQL Server when running SQL scripts.

Before attempting this procedure, you should read and understand the information and examples displayed in the following list:

-   **.INPUTS** – The account or accounts used to convert to SID format. This can be a single account name or an array of account names.

-   **.OUTPUTS** - A list of account names with the corresponding SID in standard and hexadecimal formats.

-   **Examples** -

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 DOMAIN\\user\_account1 DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$ DOMAIN\\user\_account2 | Format-List**.

    **$accountsArray = @("DOMAIN\\user\_account1", "DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$", "DOMAIN\_user\_account2")**

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 $accountsArray | Write-Output -FilePath .\\SIDs.txt -Width 200**

    \#&gt;

**To convert any number of Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) user or machine accounts into formatted Security Identifiers (SIDs)**

1.  Copy the following script into a text editor and save it as a PowerShell script file, for example **ConvertToSIDs.ps1**.

2.  To open a PowerShell console click **Start** and type **PowerShell**. Right-click **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as Administrator**.

    ``` syntax
    <#
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .SYNOPSIS
    ```

    ``` syntax
    This PowerShell script will take an array of account names and try to convert each of them to the corresponding SID in standard and hexadecimal formats.
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .DESCRIPTION
    ```

    ``` syntax
    This is a PowerShell script that converts any number of Active Directory (AD) user or machine accounts into formatted Security Identifiers (SIDs) both in the standard format and in the hexadecimal format used by SQL server when running SQL scripts.
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .INPUTS
    ```

    ``` syntax
    The account(s) to convert to SID format. This can be a single account name or an array of account names. Please see examples below.
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .OUTPUTS
    ```

    ``` syntax
    A list of account names with the corresponding SID in standard and hexadecimal formats
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .EXAMPLE
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .\ConvertToSID.ps1 DOMAIN\user_account1 DOMAIN\machine_account1$ DOMAIN\user_account2 | Format-List
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .EXAMPLE
    ```

    ``` syntax
    $accountsArray = @("DOMAIN\user_account1", "DOMAIN\machine_account1$", "DOMAIN_user_account2")
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .\ConvertToSID.ps1 $accountsArray | Write-Output -FilePath .\SIDs.txt -Width 200
    ```

    ``` syntax
#>
    ```

    ``` syntax
    ```

    []()  

    []()  

    ``` syntax
    function ConvertSIDToHexFormat
    ```

    {

       param(\[System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier\]$sidToConvert)

    ``` syntax
    ```

    ``` syntax
       $sb = New-Object System.Text.StringBuilder
    ```

    ``` syntax
        [int] $binLength = $sidToConvert.BinaryLength
    ```

    ``` syntax
        [Byte[]] $byteArray = New-Object Byte[] $binLength
    ```

    ``` syntax
       $sidToConvert.GetBinaryForm($byteArray, 0)
    ```

    ``` syntax
       foreach($byte in $byteArray)
    ```

    ``` syntax
       {
    ```

    ``` syntax
       $sb.Append($byte.ToString("X2")) |Out-Null
    ```

    ``` syntax
       }
    ```

    ``` syntax
       return $sb.ToString()
    ```

    ``` syntax
    }
    ```

    ``` syntax
     [string[]]$myArgs = $args
    ```

    ``` syntax
    if(($myArgs.Length -lt 1) -or ($myArgs[0].CompareTo("/?") -eq 0))
    ```

    {

    ``` syntax
     [string]::Format("{0}====== Description ======{0}{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
    "  Converts any number of user or machine account names to string and hexadecimal SIDs.{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  Pass the account(s) as space separated command line parameters. (For example 'ConvertToSID.exe DOMAIN\\Account1 DOMAIN\\Account2 ...'){0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  The output is written to the console in the format 'Account name    SID as string   SID as hexadecimal'{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  And can be written out to a file using standard PowerShell redirection{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  Please specify user accounts in the format 'DOMAIN\username'{0}" + 
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  Please specify machine accounts in the format 'DOMAIN\machinename$'{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  For more help content, please run 'Get-Help ConvertToSID.ps1'{0}" + 
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "{0}====== Arguments ======{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "{0}  /?    Show this help message", [Environment]::NewLine) 
    ```

    ``` syntax
    {
    ```

    ``` syntax
    else
    ```

    ``` syntax
    {  
        #If an array was passed in, try to split it
    ```

    ``` syntax
        if($myArgs.Length -eq 1)
    ```

    ``` syntax
        {
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $myArgs = $myArgs.Split(' ')
    ```

    ``` syntax
        }
    ```

    ``` syntax

        #Parse the arguments for account names
    ```

    ``` syntax
        foreach($accountName in $myArgs)
    ```

    ``` syntax
        {    
    ```

    ``` syntax
            [string[]] $splitString = $accountName.Split('\')  # We're looking for the format "DOMAIN\Account" so anything that does not match, we reject
    ```

    ``` syntax
            if($splitString.Length -ne 2)
    ```

    ``` syntax
            {
    ```

    ``` syntax
                $message = [string]::Format("{0} is not a valid account name. Expected format 'Domain\username' for user accounts or 'DOMAIN\machinename$' for machine accounts.", $accountName)
    ```

    ``` syntax
                Write-Error -Message $message
    ```

    ``` syntax
                continue
    ```

    ``` syntax
            }
    ```

    ``` syntax
            
    ```

    ``` syntax
            #Convert any account names to SIDs
    ```

    ``` syntax
            try
    ```

    ``` syntax
            {
    ```

    ``` syntax
                [System.Security.Principal.NTAccount] $account = New-Object System.Security.Principal.NTAccount($splitString[0], $splitString[1])
    ```

    ``` syntax
                [System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier] $SID = [System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier]($account.Translate([System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier]))
    ```

    ``` syntax
            }
    ```

    ``` syntax
            catch [System.Security.Principal.IdentityNotMappedException]
    ```

    ``` syntax
            {
    ```

    ``` syntax
                $message = [string]::Format("Failed to translate account object '{0}' to a SID. Please verify that this is a valid user or machine account.", $account.ToString())
    ```

    ``` syntax
                Write-Error -Message $message
    ```

    ``` syntax
                continue
    ```

    ``` syntax
            }
    ```

    ``` syntax

            #Convert regular SID to binary format used by SQL
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $hexSIDString = ConvertSIDToHexFormat $SID
    ```

    ``` syntax
            
            $SIDs = New-Object PSObject
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $SIDs | Add-Member NoteProperty Account $accountName
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $SIDs | Add-Member NoteProperty SID $SID.ToString()
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $SIDs | Add-Member NoteProperty Hexadecimal $hexSIDString
    ```

    ``` syntax

            Write-Output $SIDs
    ```

    ``` syntax
        }
    ```

    ``` syntax
    }
    ```

3.  Run the script you saved in step one of this procedure passing the accounts to convert as arguments.

    For example,

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 DOMAIN\\user\_account1 DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$ DOMAIN\\user\_account2 | Format-List” or “$accountsArray = @("DOMAIN\\user\_account1", "DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$", "DOMAIN\_user\_account2")**

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 $accountsArray | Write-Output -FilePath .\\SIDs.txt -Width 200”**

    **Have a suggestion for App-V**? Add or vote on suggestions [here](http://appv.uservoice.com/forums/280448-microsoft-application-virtualization). **Got an App-V issue?** Use the [App-V TechNet Forum](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=mdopappv).

## Related topics


[Administering App-V by Using PowerShell](appv-administering-appv-with-powershell.md)

Commit message:

added Applies to values to App-V and UE-V

windows/manage/appv-install-the-appv-databases-and-convert-the-associated-security-identifiers-with-powershell.md, after:

---
title: How to Install the App-V Databases and Convert the Associated Security Identifiers by Using PowerShell (Windows 10)
description: How to Install the App-V Databases and Convert the Associated Security Identifiers by Using PowerShell
author: MaggiePucciEvans
ms.pagetype: mdop, appcompat, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
---


# How to Install the App-V Databases and Convert the Associated Security Identifiers by Using PowerShell

Applies to: Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2012, and Windows Server 2008 R2

Use the following PowerShell procedure to convert any number of Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) user or machine accounts into formatted Security Identifiers (SIDs) both in the standard format and in the hexadecimal format used by Microsoft SQL Server when running SQL scripts.

Before attempting this procedure, you should read and understand the information and examples displayed in the following list:

-   **.INPUTS** – The account or accounts used to convert to SID format. This can be a single account name or an array of account names.

-   **.OUTPUTS** - A list of account names with the corresponding SID in standard and hexadecimal formats.

-   **Examples** -

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 DOMAIN\\user\_account1 DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$ DOMAIN\\user\_account2 | Format-List**.

    **$accountsArray = @("DOMAIN\\user\_account1", "DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$", "DOMAIN\_user\_account2")**

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 $accountsArray | Write-Output -FilePath .\\SIDs.txt -Width 200**

    \#&gt;

**To convert any number of Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) user or machine accounts into formatted Security Identifiers (SIDs)**

1.  Copy the following script into a text editor and save it as a PowerShell script file, for example **ConvertToSIDs.ps1**.

2.  To open a PowerShell console click **Start** and type **PowerShell**. Right-click **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as Administrator**.

    ``` syntax
    <#
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .SYNOPSIS
    ```

    ``` syntax
    This PowerShell script will take an array of account names and try to convert each of them to the corresponding SID in standard and hexadecimal formats.
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .DESCRIPTION
    ```

    ``` syntax
    This is a PowerShell script that converts any number of Active Directory (AD) user or machine accounts into formatted Security Identifiers (SIDs) both in the standard format and in the hexadecimal format used by SQL server when running SQL scripts.
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .INPUTS
    ```

    ``` syntax
    The account(s) to convert to SID format. This can be a single account name or an array of account names. Please see examples below.
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .OUTPUTS
    ```

    ``` syntax
    A list of account names with the corresponding SID in standard and hexadecimal formats
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .EXAMPLE
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .\ConvertToSID.ps1 DOMAIN\user_account1 DOMAIN\machine_account1$ DOMAIN\user_account2 | Format-List
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .EXAMPLE
    ```

    ``` syntax
    $accountsArray = @("DOMAIN\user_account1", "DOMAIN\machine_account1$", "DOMAIN_user_account2")
    ```

    ``` syntax
    .\ConvertToSID.ps1 $accountsArray | Write-Output -FilePath .\SIDs.txt -Width 200
    ```

    ``` syntax
#>
    ```

    ``` syntax
    ```

    []()  

    []()  

    ``` syntax
    function ConvertSIDToHexFormat
    ```

    {

       param(\[System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier\]$sidToConvert)

    ``` syntax
    ```

    ``` syntax
       $sb = New-Object System.Text.StringBuilder
    ```

    ``` syntax
        [int] $binLength = $sidToConvert.BinaryLength
    ```

    ``` syntax
        [Byte[]] $byteArray = New-Object Byte[] $binLength
    ```

    ``` syntax
       $sidToConvert.GetBinaryForm($byteArray, 0)
    ```

    ``` syntax
       foreach($byte in $byteArray)
    ```

    ``` syntax
       {
    ```

    ``` syntax
       $sb.Append($byte.ToString("X2")) |Out-Null
    ```

    ``` syntax
       }
    ```

    ``` syntax
       return $sb.ToString()
    ```

    ``` syntax
    }
    ```

    ``` syntax
     [string[]]$myArgs = $args
    ```

    ``` syntax
    if(($myArgs.Length -lt 1) -or ($myArgs[0].CompareTo("/?") -eq 0))
    ```

    {

    ``` syntax
     [string]::Format("{0}====== Description ======{0}{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
    "  Converts any number of user or machine account names to string and hexadecimal SIDs.{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  Pass the account(s) as space separated command line parameters. (For example 'ConvertToSID.exe DOMAIN\\Account1 DOMAIN\\Account2 ...'){0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  The output is written to the console in the format 'Account name    SID as string   SID as hexadecimal'{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  And can be written out to a file using standard PowerShell redirection{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  Please specify user accounts in the format 'DOMAIN\username'{0}" + 
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  Please specify machine accounts in the format 'DOMAIN\machinename$'{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "  For more help content, please run 'Get-Help ConvertToSID.ps1'{0}" + 
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "{0}====== Arguments ======{0}" +
    ```

    ``` syntax
                   "{0}  /?    Show this help message", [Environment]::NewLine) 
    ```

    ``` syntax
    {
    ```

    ``` syntax
    else
    ```

    ``` syntax
    {  
        #If an array was passed in, try to split it
    ```

    ``` syntax
        if($myArgs.Length -eq 1)
    ```

    ``` syntax
        {
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $myArgs = $myArgs.Split(' ')
    ```

    ``` syntax
        }
    ```

    ``` syntax

        #Parse the arguments for account names
    ```

    ``` syntax
        foreach($accountName in $myArgs)
    ```

    ``` syntax
        {    
    ```

    ``` syntax
            [string[]] $splitString = $accountName.Split('\')  # We're looking for the format "DOMAIN\Account" so anything that does not match, we reject
    ```

    ``` syntax
            if($splitString.Length -ne 2)
    ```

    ``` syntax
            {
    ```

    ``` syntax
                $message = [string]::Format("{0} is not a valid account name. Expected format 'Domain\username' for user accounts or 'DOMAIN\machinename$' for machine accounts.", $accountName)
    ```

    ``` syntax
                Write-Error -Message $message
    ```

    ``` syntax
                continue
    ```

    ``` syntax
            }
    ```

    ``` syntax
            
    ```

    ``` syntax
            #Convert any account names to SIDs
    ```

    ``` syntax
            try
    ```

    ``` syntax
            {
    ```

    ``` syntax
                [System.Security.Principal.NTAccount] $account = New-Object System.Security.Principal.NTAccount($splitString[0], $splitString[1])
    ```

    ``` syntax
                [System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier] $SID = [System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier]($account.Translate([System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier]))
    ```

    ``` syntax
            }
    ```

    ``` syntax
            catch [System.Security.Principal.IdentityNotMappedException]
    ```

    ``` syntax
            {
    ```

    ``` syntax
                $message = [string]::Format("Failed to translate account object '{0}' to a SID. Please verify that this is a valid user or machine account.", $account.ToString())
    ```

    ``` syntax
                Write-Error -Message $message
    ```

    ``` syntax
                continue
    ```

    ``` syntax
            }
    ```

    ``` syntax

            #Convert regular SID to binary format used by SQL
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $hexSIDString = ConvertSIDToHexFormat $SID
    ```

    ``` syntax
            
            $SIDs = New-Object PSObject
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $SIDs | Add-Member NoteProperty Account $accountName
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $SIDs | Add-Member NoteProperty SID $SID.ToString()
    ```

    ``` syntax
            $SIDs | Add-Member NoteProperty Hexadecimal $hexSIDString
    ```

    ``` syntax

            Write-Output $SIDs
    ```

    ``` syntax
        }
    ```

    ``` syntax
    }
    ```

3.  Run the script you saved in step one of this procedure passing the accounts to convert as arguments.

    For example,

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 DOMAIN\\user\_account1 DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$ DOMAIN\\user\_account2 | Format-List” or “$accountsArray = @("DOMAIN\\user\_account1", "DOMAIN\\machine\_account1$", "DOMAIN\_user\_account2")**

    **.\\ConvertToSID.ps1 $accountsArray | Write-Output -FilePath .\\SIDs.txt -Width 200”**

    **Have a suggestion for App-V**? Add or vote on suggestions [here](http://appv.uservoice.com/forums/280448-microsoft-application-virtualization). **Got an App-V issue?** Use the [App-V TechNet Forum](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=mdopappv).

## Related topics


[Administering App-V by Using PowerShell](appv-administering-appv-with-powershell.md)
