windows/manage/appv-install-the-publishing-server-on-a-remote-computer.md, before:

---
title: How to Install the Publishing Server on a Remote Computer (Windows 10)
description: How to Install the App-V Publishing Server on a Remote Computer
author: MaggiePucciEvans
ms.pagetype: mdop, appcompat, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
---


# How to Install the Publishing Server on a Remote Computer


Use the following procedure to install the publishing server on a separate computer. Before you perform the following procedure, ensure the database and management server are available.

**To install the publishing server on a separate computer**

1.  Copy the App-V server installation files to the computer on which you want to install it on. To start the App-V server installation right-click and run **appv\_server\_setup.exe** as an administrator. Click **Install**.

2.  On the **Getting Started** page, review and accept the license terms, and click **Next**.

3.  On the **Use Microsoft Update to help keep your computer secure and up-to-date** page, to enable Microsoft updates, select **Use Microsoft Update when I check for updates (recommended).** To disable Microsoft updates, select **I don’t want to use Microsoft Update**. Click **Next**.

4.  On the **Feature Selection** page, select the **Publishing Server** checkbox and click **Next**.

5.  On the **Installation Location** page, accept the default location and click **Next**.

6.  On the **Configure Publishing Server Configuration** page, specify the following items:

    -   The URL for the management service that the publishing server will connect to. For example, **http://ManagementServerName:12345**.

    -   Specify the website name that you want to use for the publishing service. Accept the default if you do not have a custom name.

    -   For the **Port Binding**, specify a unique port number that will be used by App-V, for example **54321**.

7.  On the **Ready to Install** page, click **Install**.

8.  After the installation is complete, the publishing server must be registered with the management server. In the App-V management console, use the following steps to register the server:

    1.  Open the App-V management server console.

    2.  In the left pane, select **Servers**, and then select **Register New Server**.

    3.  Type the name of this server and a description (if required) and click **Add**.

9.  To verify that the publishing server is running correctly, you should import a package to the management server, entitle the package to an AD group, and publish the package. Using an internet browser, open the following URL: **http://publishingserver:pubport**. If the server is running correctly information similar to the following will be displayed:

    ```syntax
    <Publishing Protocol="1.0">
    
        <Packages>

        <Package PackageId="28115343-06e2-44dc-a327-3a0b9b868bda" VersionId="5d03c08f-51dc-4026-8cf9-15ebe3d65a72" PackageUrl="\\server\share\file.appv" />
        
        </Packages>

        <NoGroup>

        <Package PackageId="28115343-06e2-44dc-a327-3a0b9b868bda" />

        </NoGroup>

    </Publishing>
    ```

## Have a suggestion for App-V? 

Add or vote on suggestions [here](http://appv.uservoice.com/forums/280448-microsoft-application-virtualization). For App-V issues, use the [App-V TechNet Forum](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=mdopappv).

## Related topics


[Deploying App-V](appv-deploying-appv.md)

Commit message:

added Applies to values to App-V and UE-V

windows/manage/appv-install-the-publishing-server-on-a-remote-computer.md, after:

---
title: How to Install the Publishing Server on a Remote Computer (Windows 10)
description: How to Install the App-V Publishing Server on a Remote Computer
author: MaggiePucciEvans
ms.pagetype: mdop, appcompat, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
---


# How to Install the Publishing Server on a Remote Computer

Applies to: Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2012, and Windows Server 2008 R2

Use the following procedure to install the publishing server on a separate computer. Before you perform the following procedure, ensure the database and management server are available.

**To install the publishing server on a separate computer**

1.  Copy the App-V server installation files to the computer on which you want to install it on. To start the App-V server installation right-click and run **appv\_server\_setup.exe** as an administrator. Click **Install**.

2.  On the **Getting Started** page, review and accept the license terms, and click **Next**.

3.  On the **Use Microsoft Update to help keep your computer secure and up-to-date** page, to enable Microsoft updates, select **Use Microsoft Update when I check for updates (recommended).** To disable Microsoft updates, select **I don’t want to use Microsoft Update**. Click **Next**.

4.  On the **Feature Selection** page, select the **Publishing Server** checkbox and click **Next**.

5.  On the **Installation Location** page, accept the default location and click **Next**.

6.  On the **Configure Publishing Server Configuration** page, specify the following items:

    -   The URL for the management service that the publishing server will connect to. For example, **http://ManagementServerName:12345**.

    -   Specify the website name that you want to use for the publishing service. Accept the default if you do not have a custom name.

    -   For the **Port Binding**, specify a unique port number that will be used by App-V, for example **54321**.

7.  On the **Ready to Install** page, click **Install**.

8.  After the installation is complete, the publishing server must be registered with the management server. In the App-V management console, use the following steps to register the server:

    1.  Open the App-V management server console.

    2.  In the left pane, select **Servers**, and then select **Register New Server**.

    3.  Type the name of this server and a description (if required) and click **Add**.

9.  To verify that the publishing server is running correctly, you should import a package to the management server, entitle the package to an AD group, and publish the package. Using an internet browser, open the following URL: **http://publishingserver:pubport**. If the server is running correctly information similar to the following will be displayed:

    ```syntax
    <Publishing Protocol="1.0">
    
        <Packages>

        <Package PackageId="28115343-06e2-44dc-a327-3a0b9b868bda" VersionId="5d03c08f-51dc-4026-8cf9-15ebe3d65a72" PackageUrl="\\server\share\file.appv" />
        
        </Packages>

        <NoGroup>

        <Package PackageId="28115343-06e2-44dc-a327-3a0b9b868bda" />

        </NoGroup>

    </Publishing>
    ```

## Have a suggestion for App-V? 

Add or vote on suggestions [here](http://appv.uservoice.com/forums/280448-microsoft-application-virtualization). For App-V issues, use the [App-V TechNet Forum](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=mdopappv).

## Related topics


[Deploying App-V](appv-deploying-appv.md)
