windows/manage/appv-install-the-reporting-server-on-a-standalone-computer.md, before:

---
title: How to install the Reporting Server on a Standalone Computer and Connect it to the Database (Windows 10)
description: How to install the App-V Reporting Server on a Standalone Computer and Connect it to the Database
author: MaggiePucciEvans
ms.pagetype: mdop, appcompat, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
---


# How to install the Reporting Server on a Standalone Computer and Connect it to the Database


Use the following procedure to install the reporting server on a standalone computer and connect it to the database.

**Important**  
Before performing the following procedure you should read and understand [About App-V Reporting](appv-reporting.md).

 

**To install the reporting server on a standalone computer and connect it to the database**

1.  Copy the App-V server installation files to the computer on which you want to install it on. To start the App-V server installation right-click and run **appv\_server\_setup.exe** as an administrator. Click **Install**.

2.  On the **Getting Started** page, review and accept the license terms, and click **Next**.

3.  On the **Use Microsoft Update to help keep your computer secure and up-to-date** page, to enable Microsoft updates, select **Use Microsoft Update when I check for updates (recommended).** To disable Microsoft updates, select **I don’t want to use Microsoft Update**. Click **Next**.

4.  On the **Feature Selection** page, select the **Reporting Server** checkbox and click **Next**.

5.  On the **Installation Location** page, accept the default location and click **Next**.

6.  On the **Configure Existing Reporting Database** page, select **Use a remote SQL Server**, and type the machine name of the computer running Microsoft SQL Server, for example **SqlServerMachine**.

    **Note**  
    If the Microsoft SQL Server is deployed on the same server, select **Use local SQL Server**. For the SQL Server Instance, select **Use the default instance**. If you are using a custom Microsoft SQL Server instance, you must select **Use a custom instance** and then type the name of the instance. Specify the **SQL Server Database name** that this reporting server will use, for example **AppvReporting**.

7.  On the **Configure Reporting Server Configuration** page.

    -   Specify the Website Name that you want to use for the Reporting Service. Leave the default unchanged if you do not have a custom name.

    -   For the **Port binding**, specify a unique port number that will be used by App-V, for example **55555**. You should also ensure that the port specified is not being used by another website.

8.  Click **Install**.

## Have a suggestion for App-V? 

Add or vote on suggestions [here](http://appv.uservoice.com/forums/280448-microsoft-application-virtualization). For App-V issues, use the [App-V TechNet Forum](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=mdopappv).

## Related topics


[About App-V Reporting](appv-reporting.md)

[Deploying App-V](appv-deploying-appv.md)

[How to Enable Reporting on the App-V Client by Using PowerShell](appv-enable-reporting-on-the-appv-client-with-powershell.md)

Commit message:

added Applies to values to App-V and UE-V

windows/manage/appv-install-the-reporting-server-on-a-standalone-computer.md, after:

---
title: How to install the Reporting Server on a Standalone Computer and Connect it to the Database (Windows 10)
description: How to install the App-V Reporting Server on a Standalone Computer and Connect it to the Database
author: MaggiePucciEvans
ms.pagetype: mdop, appcompat, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
---


# How to install the Reporting Server on a Standalone Computer and Connect it to the Database

Applies to: Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2012, and Windows Server 2008 R2

Use the following procedure to install the reporting server on a standalone computer and connect it to the database.

**Important**  
Before performing the following procedure you should read and understand [About App-V Reporting](appv-reporting.md).

 

**To install the reporting server on a standalone computer and connect it to the database**

1.  Copy the App-V server installation files to the computer on which you want to install it on. To start the App-V server installation right-click and run **appv\_server\_setup.exe** as an administrator. Click **Install**.

2.  On the **Getting Started** page, review and accept the license terms, and click **Next**.

3.  On the **Use Microsoft Update to help keep your computer secure and up-to-date** page, to enable Microsoft updates, select **Use Microsoft Update when I check for updates (recommended).** To disable Microsoft updates, select **I don’t want to use Microsoft Update**. Click **Next**.

4.  On the **Feature Selection** page, select the **Reporting Server** checkbox and click **Next**.

5.  On the **Installation Location** page, accept the default location and click **Next**.

6.  On the **Configure Existing Reporting Database** page, select **Use a remote SQL Server**, and type the machine name of the computer running Microsoft SQL Server, for example **SqlServerMachine**.

    **Note**  
    If the Microsoft SQL Server is deployed on the same server, select **Use local SQL Server**. For the SQL Server Instance, select **Use the default instance**. If you are using a custom Microsoft SQL Server instance, you must select **Use a custom instance** and then type the name of the instance. Specify the **SQL Server Database name** that this reporting server will use, for example **AppvReporting**.

7.  On the **Configure Reporting Server Configuration** page.

    -   Specify the Website Name that you want to use for the Reporting Service. Leave the default unchanged if you do not have a custom name.

    -   For the **Port binding**, specify a unique port number that will be used by App-V, for example **55555**. You should also ensure that the port specified is not being used by another website.

8.  Click **Install**.

## Have a suggestion for App-V? 

Add or vote on suggestions [here](http://appv.uservoice.com/forums/280448-microsoft-application-virtualization). For App-V issues, use the [App-V TechNet Forum](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/home?forum=mdopappv).

## Related topics


[About App-V Reporting](appv-reporting.md)

[Deploying App-V](appv-deploying-appv.md)

[How to Enable Reporting on the App-V Client by Using PowerShell](appv-enable-reporting-on-the-appv-client-with-powershell.md)
