windows/manage/configure-windows-10-taskbar.md, before:

---
title: Configure Windows 10 taskbar (Windows 10)
description: Admins can pin apps to users' taskbars. 
keywords: ["taskbar layout","pin apps"]
ms.prod: W10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
author: jdeckerMS
localizationpriority: high
---
# Configure Windows 10 taskbar

Starting in Windows 10, version 1607, administrators can pin additional apps to the taskbar and remove default pinned apps from the taskbar by adding a `<TaskbarLayout>` section to a layout modification XML file. This method never removes user-pinned apps from the taskbar.

> [!NOTE]
> The only aspect of the taskbar that can currently be configured by the layout modification XML file is the layout.

You can specify different taskbar configurations based on device locale and region. There is no limit on the number of apps that you can pin. You specify apps using the [Application User Model ID (AUMID)](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=614867) or Desktop Application Link Path (the local path to the application). 

If you specify an app to be pinned that is not installed on the computer, it won't appear on the taskbar.

The order of apps in the xml file dictates order of apps on taskbar from left to right, to the right of any existing apps pinned by user.

> [!NOTE]
> In operating systems configured to use a right-to-left language, the taskbar order will be reversed.

The following example shows how apps will be pinned: Windows default apps to the left (blue circle), apps pinned by the user in the center (orange triangle), and apps that you pin using XML to the right (green square).

![Windows left, user center, enterprise to the right](images/taskbar-generic.png)


## Configure taskbar (general)

To configure the taskbar:
1. Create the XML file.
   * If you are also [customizing the Start layout](customize-and-export-start-layout.md), use `Export-StartLayout` to create the XML, and then add the `<CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>` section from the following sample to the file.
   * If you are only configuring the taskbar, use the following sample to create a layout modification XML file.
2. Edit and save the XML file. You can use [AUMID](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=614867) or Desktop Application Link Path to identify the apps to pin to the taskbar.
   * Use `<taskbar:UWA>` and [AUMID](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=614867) to pin Universal Windows Platform apps.
   * Use `<taskbar:DesktopApp>` and Desktop Application Link Path to pin desktop applications. 
3. Apply the layout modification XML file to devices using [Group Policy](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-group-policy.md) or a [provisioning package created in Windows Imaging and Configuration Designer (Windows ICD)](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-provisioning-packages-and-icd.md).

>[!IMPORTANT]
>If you use a provisioning package to configure the taskbar, your configuration will be reapplied each time the explorer.exe process restarts. If your configuration pins an app and the user unpins that app, the user's change will be overwritten the next time the configuration is applied. To apply a taskbar configuration and allow users to make changes that will persist, apply your configuration by using Group Policy.

### Tips for finding AUMID and Desktop Application Link Path

In the layout modification XML file, you will need to add entries for applications in the XML markup. In order to pin an application, you need either its AUMID or Desktop Application Link Path. 

The easiest way to find this data for an application is to:
1.	Pin the application to the Start menu
2. 	Open Windows PowerShell and run the `Export-StartLayout` cmdlet. 
3.	Open the generated XML file. 
4.	Look for an entry corresponding to the app you pinned .
5.	Look for a property labeled `AppUserModelID` or `DesktopApplicationLinkPath`. 


### Sample taskbar configuration XML

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
 </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```
### Sample taskbar configuration added to Start layout XML

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <LayoutOptions StartTileGroupCellWidth="6" StartTileGroupsColumnCount="1" />
  <DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <StartLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:StartLayout GroupCellWidth="6" xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout">
        <start:Group Name="Life at a glance" xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout">
          <start:Tile Size="2x2" Column="0" Row="0" AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
          <start:Tile Size="2x2" Column="4" Row="0" AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy!CortanaUI" />
          <start:Tile Size="2x2" Column="2" Row="0" AppUserModelID="Microsoft.BingWeather_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App" />
        </start:Group>        
      </defaultlayout:StartLayout>
    </StartLayoutCollection>
  </DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
        <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
          <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
          <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
      </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
    </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```

##Keep default apps and add your own

The `<CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>` section will append listed apps to the taskbar by default. The following sample keeps the default apps pinned and adds pins for Paint, Microsoft Reader, and a command prompt.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%appdata%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\Command Prompt.lnk" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
  </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```
**Before:**

![default apps pinned to taskbar](images/taskbar-default.png)

**After:**
 
 ![additional apps pinned to taskbar](images/taskbar-default-plus.png)

##Remove default apps and add your own

By adding `PinListPlacement="Replace"` to `<CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>`, you remove all default pinned apps; only the apps that you specify will be pinned to the taskbar.

If you only want to remove some of the default pinned apps, you would use this method to remove all default pinned apps and then include the default app that you want to keep in your list of pinned apps.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection PinListPlacement="Replace">
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath=”%APPDATA%Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Internet Explorer.lnk”/>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
  </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>

```
**Before:**

![Taskbar with default apps](images/taskbar-default.png)

**After:**

![Taskbar with default apps removed](images/taskbar-default-removed.png)

## Configure taskbar by country or region

The following example shows you how to configure taskbars by country or region. When you specify one or more country or region in `<taskbar:TaskbarPinList>`, the pinned apps in that section are only pinned on computers that are configured for that country or region. When specifying taskbar configuration by country or region, the taskbar will concatenate pinlists together so long as the target computer meets the country or region requirements. If no country or region is specified for a `<TaskbarPinList>` node, it will apply to every country and region.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">

  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection PinListPlacement="Replace">
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout region="US|UK">
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList >
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk"/>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout region="DE|FR">
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Excel_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.excel" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk"/>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk"/>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
  </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>

```

When the preceding example XML is applied, the resulting taskbar for computers in the US or UK:

![taskbar for US and UK locale](images/taskbar-region-usuk.png)

The resulting taskbar for computers in Germany or France:

![taskbar for DE and FR locale](images/taskbar-region-defr.png)

The resulting taskbar for computers in any other country region:

![taskbar for all other regions](images/taskbar-region-other.png)


> [!NOTE]
> [Look up country and region codes (use the ISO Short column)](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=786445)




## Layout Modification Template schema definition

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<xsd:schema xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
            xmlns:local="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
            targetNamespace="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
            elementFormDefault="qualified">

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_PinnedUWA">
    <xsd:attribute name="AppUserModelID" type="xsd:string" />
  </xsd:complexType>

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_PinnedDesktopApp">
    <xsd:attribute name="DesktopApplicationID" type="xsd:string" />
    <xsd:attribute name="DesktopApplicationLinkPath" type="xsd:string" />
  </xsd:complexType>

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_TaskbarPinList">
    <xsd:sequence>
      <xsd:choice minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="unbounded">
        <xsd:element name="UWA" type="local:ct_PinnedUWA" />
        <xsd:element name="DesktopApp" type="local:ct_PinnedDesktopApp" />
      </xsd:choice>
    </xsd:sequence>
    <xsd:attribute name="Region" type="xsd:string" use="optional" />
  </xsd:complexType>

  <xsd:simpleType name="st_TaskbarPinListPlacement">
    <xsd:restriction base="xsd:string">
      <xsd:enumeration value="Append" />
      <xsd:enumeration value="Replace" />
    </xsd:restriction>
  </xsd:simpleType>

  <xsd:attributeGroup name="ag_SelectionAttributes">
    <xsd:attribute name="SKU" type="xsd:string" use="optional"/>
    <xsd:attribute name="Region" type="xsd:string" use="optional"/>
  </xsd:attributeGroup>

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_TaskbarLayout">
    <xsd:sequence>
      <xsd:element name="TaskbarPinList" type="local:ct_TaskbarPinList" minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="1" />
    </xsd:sequence>
    <xsd:attributeGroup ref="local:ag_SelectionAttributes"/>
  </xsd:complexType>

</xsd:schema>
```

## Related topics

[Manage Windows 10 Start and taskbar layout ](windows-10-start-layout-options-and-policies.md)[Customize and export Start layout](customize-and-export-start-layout.md)

[Customize Windows 10 Start and taskbar with Group Policy](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-group-policy.md)

[Customize Windows 10 Start with mobile device management (MDM)](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-mobile-device-management.md)

[Customize Windows 10 Start and taskbar with ICD and provisioning packages](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-provisioning-packages-and-icd.md)

[Changes to Group Policy settings for Windows 10 Start](changes-to-start-policies-in-windows-10.md)

Commit message:

clarifing
Just to clarify that when using county code this will not merge/append with TaskPinList without country or region defined.

windows/manage/configure-windows-10-taskbar.md, after:

---
title: Configure Windows 10 taskbar (Windows 10)
description: Admins can pin apps to users' taskbars. 
keywords: ["taskbar layout","pin apps"]
ms.prod: W10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
author: jdeckerMS
localizationpriority: high
---
# Configure Windows 10 taskbar

Starting in Windows 10, version 1607, administrators can pin additional apps to the taskbar and remove default pinned apps from the taskbar by adding a `<TaskbarLayout>` section to a layout modification XML file. This method never removes user-pinned apps from the taskbar.

> [!NOTE]
> The only aspect of the taskbar that can currently be configured by the layout modification XML file is the layout.

You can specify different taskbar configurations based on device locale and region. There is no limit on the number of apps that you can pin. You specify apps using the [Application User Model ID (AUMID)](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=614867) or Desktop Application Link Path (the local path to the application). 

If you specify an app to be pinned that is not installed on the computer, it won't appear on the taskbar.

The order of apps in the xml file dictates order of apps on taskbar from left to right, to the right of any existing apps pinned by user.

> [!NOTE]
> In operating systems configured to use a right-to-left language, the taskbar order will be reversed.

The following example shows how apps will be pinned: Windows default apps to the left (blue circle), apps pinned by the user in the center (orange triangle), and apps that you pin using XML to the right (green square).

![Windows left, user center, enterprise to the right](images/taskbar-generic.png)


## Configure taskbar (general)

To configure the taskbar:
1. Create the XML file.
   * If you are also [customizing the Start layout](customize-and-export-start-layout.md), use `Export-StartLayout` to create the XML, and then add the `<CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>` section from the following sample to the file.
   * If you are only configuring the taskbar, use the following sample to create a layout modification XML file.
2. Edit and save the XML file. You can use [AUMID](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=614867) or Desktop Application Link Path to identify the apps to pin to the taskbar.
   * Use `<taskbar:UWA>` and [AUMID](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=614867) to pin Universal Windows Platform apps.
   * Use `<taskbar:DesktopApp>` and Desktop Application Link Path to pin desktop applications. 
3. Apply the layout modification XML file to devices using [Group Policy](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-group-policy.md) or a [provisioning package created in Windows Imaging and Configuration Designer (Windows ICD)](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-provisioning-packages-and-icd.md).

>[!IMPORTANT]
>If you use a provisioning package to configure the taskbar, your configuration will be reapplied each time the explorer.exe process restarts. If your configuration pins an app and the user unpins that app, the user's change will be overwritten the next time the configuration is applied. To apply a taskbar configuration and allow users to make changes that will persist, apply your configuration by using Group Policy.

### Tips for finding AUMID and Desktop Application Link Path

In the layout modification XML file, you will need to add entries for applications in the XML markup. In order to pin an application, you need either its AUMID or Desktop Application Link Path. 

The easiest way to find this data for an application is to:
1.	Pin the application to the Start menu
2. 	Open Windows PowerShell and run the `Export-StartLayout` cmdlet. 
3.	Open the generated XML file. 
4.	Look for an entry corresponding to the app you pinned .
5.	Look for a property labeled `AppUserModelID` or `DesktopApplicationLinkPath`. 


### Sample taskbar configuration XML

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
 </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```
### Sample taskbar configuration added to Start layout XML

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <LayoutOptions StartTileGroupCellWidth="6" StartTileGroupsColumnCount="1" />
  <DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <StartLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:StartLayout GroupCellWidth="6" xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout">
        <start:Group Name="Life at a glance" xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout">
          <start:Tile Size="2x2" Column="0" Row="0" AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
          <start:Tile Size="2x2" Column="4" Row="0" AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Windows.Cortana_cw5n1h2txyewy!CortanaUI" />
          <start:Tile Size="2x2" Column="2" Row="0" AppUserModelID="Microsoft.BingWeather_8wekyb3d8bbwe!App" />
        </start:Group>        
      </defaultlayout:StartLayout>
    </StartLayoutCollection>
  </DefaultLayoutOverride>
    <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
      <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
        <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
          <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
          <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
      </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
    </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```

##Keep default apps and add your own

The `<CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>` section will append listed apps to the taskbar by default. The following sample keeps the default apps pinned and adds pins for Paint, Microsoft Reader, and a command prompt.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%appdata%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\Command Prompt.lnk" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
  </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>
```
**Before:**

![default apps pinned to taskbar](images/taskbar-default.png)

**After:**
 
 ![additional apps pinned to taskbar](images/taskbar-default-plus.png)

##Remove default apps and add your own

By adding `PinListPlacement="Replace"` to `<CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>`, you remove all default pinned apps; only the apps that you specify will be pinned to the taskbar.

If you only want to remove some of the default pinned apps, you would use this method to remove all default pinned apps and then include the default app that you want to keep in your list of pinned apps.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">
  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection PinListPlacement="Replace">
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath=”%APPDATA%Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Internet Explorer.lnk”/>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
  </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>

```
**Before:**

![Taskbar with default apps](images/taskbar-default.png)

**After:**

![Taskbar with default apps removed](images/taskbar-default-removed.png)

## Configure taskbar by country or region

The following example shows you how to configure taskbars by country or region. When you specify one or more country or region in `<taskbar:TaskbarPinList>`, the pinned apps in that section are only pinned on computers that are configured for that country or region. When specifying taskbar configuration by country or region, the taskbar will concatenate pinlists together so long as the target computer meets the country or region requirements. If no country or region is specified for a `<TaskbarPinList>` node, it will apply to every country and region, only if the country or region has not been defined prior. Unspecified country or region in  `<taskbar:TaskbarPinList>` will not merge with a `<taskbar:TaskbarPinList>` that has country or region specified.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<LayoutModificationTemplate
    xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/LayoutModification"
    xmlns:defaultlayout="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/FullDefaultLayout"
    xmlns:start="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/StartLayout"
    xmlns:taskbar="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
    Version="1">

  <CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection PinListPlacement="Replace">
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout region="US|UK">
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList >
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.MicrosoftEdge_8wekyb3d8bbwe!MicrosoftEdge" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk"/>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout region="DE|FR">
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Excel_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.excel" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk"/>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
    <defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
      <taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\System Tools\File Explorer.lnk" />
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Office.Word_8wekyb3d8bbwe!microsoft.word" />
        <taskbar:DesktopApp DesktopApplicationLinkPath="%ALLUSERSPROFILE%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Accessories\Paint.lnk"/>
        <taskbar:UWA AppUserModelID="Microsoft.Reader_8wekyb3d8bbwe!Microsoft.Reader" />
      </taskbar:TaskbarPinList>
    </defaultlayout:TaskbarLayout>
  </CustomTaskbarLayoutCollection>
</LayoutModificationTemplate>

```

When the preceding example XML is applied, the resulting taskbar for computers in the US or UK:

![taskbar for US and UK locale](images/taskbar-region-usuk.png)

The resulting taskbar for computers in Germany or France:

![taskbar for DE and FR locale](images/taskbar-region-defr.png)

The resulting taskbar for computers in any other country region:

![taskbar for all other regions](images/taskbar-region-other.png)


> [!NOTE]
> [Look up country and region codes (use the ISO Short column)](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=786445)




## Layout Modification Template schema definition

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<xsd:schema xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
            xmlns:local="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
            targetNamespace="http://schemas.microsoft.com/Start/2014/TaskbarLayout"
            elementFormDefault="qualified">

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_PinnedUWA">
    <xsd:attribute name="AppUserModelID" type="xsd:string" />
  </xsd:complexType>

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_PinnedDesktopApp">
    <xsd:attribute name="DesktopApplicationID" type="xsd:string" />
    <xsd:attribute name="DesktopApplicationLinkPath" type="xsd:string" />
  </xsd:complexType>

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_TaskbarPinList">
    <xsd:sequence>
      <xsd:choice minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="unbounded">
        <xsd:element name="UWA" type="local:ct_PinnedUWA" />
        <xsd:element name="DesktopApp" type="local:ct_PinnedDesktopApp" />
      </xsd:choice>
    </xsd:sequence>
    <xsd:attribute name="Region" type="xsd:string" use="optional" />
  </xsd:complexType>

  <xsd:simpleType name="st_TaskbarPinListPlacement">
    <xsd:restriction base="xsd:string">
      <xsd:enumeration value="Append" />
      <xsd:enumeration value="Replace" />
    </xsd:restriction>
  </xsd:simpleType>

  <xsd:attributeGroup name="ag_SelectionAttributes">
    <xsd:attribute name="SKU" type="xsd:string" use="optional"/>
    <xsd:attribute name="Region" type="xsd:string" use="optional"/>
  </xsd:attributeGroup>

  <xsd:complexType name="ct_TaskbarLayout">
    <xsd:sequence>
      <xsd:element name="TaskbarPinList" type="local:ct_TaskbarPinList" minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="1" />
    </xsd:sequence>
    <xsd:attributeGroup ref="local:ag_SelectionAttributes"/>
  </xsd:complexType>

</xsd:schema>
```

## Related topics

[Manage Windows 10 Start and taskbar layout ](windows-10-start-layout-options-and-policies.md)[Customize and export Start layout](customize-and-export-start-layout.md)

[Customize Windows 10 Start and taskbar with Group Policy](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-group-policy.md)

[Customize Windows 10 Start with mobile device management (MDM)](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-mobile-device-management.md)

[Customize Windows 10 Start and taskbar with ICD and provisioning packages](customize-windows-10-start-screens-by-using-provisioning-packages-and-icd.md)

[Changes to Group Policy settings for Windows 10 Start](changes-to-start-policies-in-windows-10.md)
