windows/manage/waas-manage-updates-wufb.md, before:

---
title: Manage updates using Windows Update for Business (Windows 10)
description: Windows Update for Business lets you manage when devices received updates from Windows Update.
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
author: DaniHalfin
localizationpriority: high
---

# Manage updates using Windows Update for Business


**Applies to**

- Windows 10
- Windows 10 Mobile

> **Looking for consumer information?** See [Windows Update: FAQ](https://support.microsoft.com/help/12373/windows-update-faq) 

Windows Update for Business enables information technology administrators to keep the Windows 10 devices in their organization always up to date with the latest security defenses and Windows features by directly connecting these systems to Windows Update service.  You can use Group Policy or MDM solutions such as Intune to configure the Windows Update for Business settings that control how and when Windows 10 devices are updated. In addition, by using Intune, organizations can manage devices that are not joined to a domain at all or are joined to Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) alongside your on-premises domain-joined machines.  

Specifically, Windows Update for Business allows for: 

- The creation of deployment rings, where administrators can specify which devices go first in an update wave, and which ones will come later (to ensure any quality bars are met).
- Selectively including or excluding drivers as part of Microsoft-provided updates
- Integration with existing management tools such as Windows Server Update Services (WSUS), System Center Configuration Manager, and Microsoft Intune.
- Peer-to-peer delivery for Microsoft updates, which optimizes bandwidth efficiency and reduces the need for an on-site server caching solution.

Windows Update for Business is a free service that is available for Windows Pro, Enterprise, Pro Education, and Education.

>[!NOTE]
>See [Build deployment rings for Windows 10 updates](waas-deployment-rings-windows-10-updates.md) to learn more about deployment rings in Windows 10.

## Update types

Windows Update for Business provides three types of updates to Windows 10 devices:

- **Feature Updates**: previously referred to as *upgrades*, Feature Updates contain not only security and quality revisions, but also significant feature additions and changes; they are released at a slower cadence, every 4 to 8 months.
- **Quality Updates**: these are traditional operating system updates, typically released the second Tuesday of each month (though they can be released at any time).  These include security, critical, and driver updates. Windows Update for Business also treats non-Windows updates (such as those for Microsoft Office or Visual Studio) as Quality Updates. These non-Windows Updates are known as *Microsoft Updates* and devices can be optionally configured to receive such updates along with their Windows Updates.
- **Non-deferrable updates**: Currently, antimalware and antispyware Definition Updates from Windows Update cannot be deferred.
 
Both Feature and Quality Updates can be deferred from deploying to client devices by a Windows Update for Business administrator within a bounded range of time from when those updates are first made available on the Windows Update Service. This deferral capability allows administrators to validate deployments as they are pushed to all client devices configured for Windows Update for Business.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Category</th>
<th>Maximum deferral</th>
<th>Deferral increments</th>
<th>Example</th>
<th>Classification GUID</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Feature Updates</td>
<td>180 days</td>
<td>Days</td>
<td>From Windows 10, version 1511 to version 1607</td>
<td>3689BDC8-B205-4AF4-8D4A-A63924C5E9D5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="4">Quality Updates</td>
<td rowspan="4">30 days</td>
<td rowspan="4">Days</td>
<td>Security updates</td>
<td>0FA1201D-4330-4FA8-8AE9-B877473B6441</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Drivers (optional)</td>
<td>EBFC1FC5-71A4-4F7B-9ACA-3B9A503104A0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Non-security updates</td>
<td>CD5FFD1E-E932-4E3A-BF74-18BF0B1BBD83</td>
</tr><tr><td>Microsoft updates (Office, Visual Studio, etc.)</td><td>varies</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>Non-deferrable</td>
<td>No deferral</td>
<td>No deferral</td>
<td>Definition updates</td>
<td>E0789628-CE08-4437-BE74-2495B842F43B</td>
</tr>
</table> 

>[!NOTE]
>For information about classification GUIDs, see [WSUS Classification GUIDs](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff357803.aspx).

## Comparing Windows Update for Business in Windows 10, version 1511 and version 1607

Windows Update for Business was first made available in Windows 10, version 1511. In Windows 10, version 1607 (also known as the Anniversary Update), there are several new or changed capabilities provided as well as updated behavior.   

>[!NOTE]
>For more information on Current Branch and Current Branch for Business, see [Windows 10 servicing options](introduction-to-windows-10-servicing.md).

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr><th>Capability</th><th>Windows 10, version 1511</th><th>Windows 10, version 1607</th>           
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr><td><p>Select Servicing Options: CB or CBB</p></td><td><p>Not available.  To defer updates, all systems must be on the Current Branch for Business (CBB)</p></td><td><p>Ability to set systems on the Current Branch (CB) or Current Branch for Business (CBB).</p></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Quality Updates</p></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Quality Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 4 weeks</li><li>In weekly increments</li></ul></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Quality Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 30 days</li><li>In daily increments</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Feature Updates</p></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Feature Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 8 months</li><li>In monthly increments</li></ul></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Feature Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 180 days</li><li>In daily increments</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Pause updates</p></td><td><ul><li>Feature Updates and Quality Updates paused together</li><li>Maximum of 35 days</li></ul></td><td><p>Features and Quality Updates can be paused separately.</p><ul><li>Feature Updates: maximum 60 days</li><li>Quality Updates: maximum 35 days</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Drivers</p></td><td><p>No driver-specific controls</p></td><td><p>Drivers can be selectively excluded from Windows Update for Business.</p></td></tr>
</tbody></table>


## Steps to manage updates for Windows 10

<table><tbody>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Learn about updates and servicing branches](waas-overview.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Prepare servicing strategy for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-strategy-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Build deployment rings for Windows 10 updates](waas-deployment-rings-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Assign devices to servicing branches for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-branches-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Optimize update delivery for Windows 10 updates](waas-optimize-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">Manage updates using Windows Update for Business (this topic)</br>
or [Manage Windows 10 updates using Windows Server Update Services](waas-manage-updates-wsus.md)</br>
or [Manage Windows 10 updates using System Center Configuration Manager](waas-manage-updates-configuration-manager.md)</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
</br>


## Related topics

- [Update Windows 10 in the enterprise](waas-update-windows-10.md)
- [Overview of Windows as a service](waas-overview.md)
- [Prepare servicing strategy for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-strategy-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Build deployment rings for Windows 10 updates](waas-deployment-rings-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Assign devices to servicing branches for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-branches-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Optimize update delivery for Windows 10 updates](waas-optimize-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Configure Delivery Optimization for Windows 10 updates](waas-delivery-optimization.md)
- [Configure BranchCache for Windows 10 updates](waas-branchcache.md)
- [Manage updates for Windows 10 Mobile Enterprise and Windows 10 IoT Mobile](waas-mobile-updates.md) 
- [Configure Windows Update for Business](waas-configure-wufb.md)
- [Integrate Windows Update for Business with management solutions](waas-integrate-wufb.md)
- [Walkthrough: use Group Policy to configure Windows Update for Business](waas-wufb-group-policy.md)
- [Walkthrough: use Intune to configure Windows Update for Business](waas-wufb-intune.md)
- [Manage Windows 10 updates using Windows Server Update Services](waas-manage-updates-wsus.md)
- [Manage Windows 10 updates using System Center Configuration Manager](waas-manage-updates-configuration-manager.md)
- [Manage device restarts after updates](waas-restart.md)

Commit message:

Waas-manage-wufb - Added a update compliance ref

windows/manage/waas-manage-updates-wufb.md, after:

---
title: Manage updates using Windows Update for Business (Windows 10)
description: Windows Update for Business lets you manage when devices received updates from Windows Update.
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
author: DaniHalfin
localizationpriority: high
---

# Manage updates using Windows Update for Business


**Applies to**

- Windows 10
- Windows 10 Mobile

> **Looking for consumer information?** See [Windows Update: FAQ](https://support.microsoft.com/help/12373/windows-update-faq) 

Windows Update for Business enables information technology administrators to keep the Windows 10 devices in their organization always up to date with the latest security defenses and Windows features by directly connecting these systems to Windows Update service.  You can use Group Policy or MDM solutions such as Intune to configure the Windows Update for Business settings that control how and when Windows 10 devices are updated. In addition, by using Intune, organizations can manage devices that are not joined to a domain at all or are joined to Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) alongside your on-premises domain-joined machines.  

Specifically, Windows Update for Business allows for: 

- The creation of deployment rings, where administrators can specify which devices go first in an update wave, and which ones will come later (to ensure any quality bars are met).
- Selectively including or excluding drivers as part of Microsoft-provided updates
- Integration with existing management tools such as Windows Server Update Services (WSUS), System Center Configuration Manager, and Microsoft Intune.
- Peer-to-peer delivery for Microsoft updates, which optimizes bandwidth efficiency and reduces the need for an on-site server caching solution.

Windows Update for Business is a free service that is available for Windows Pro, Enterprise, Pro Education, and Education.

>[!NOTE]
>See [Build deployment rings for Windows 10 updates](waas-deployment-rings-windows-10-updates.md) to learn more about deployment rings in Windows 10.

## Update types

Windows Update for Business provides three types of updates to Windows 10 devices:

- **Feature Updates**: previously referred to as *upgrades*, Feature Updates contain not only security and quality revisions, but also significant feature additions and changes; they are released at a slower cadence, every 4 to 8 months.
- **Quality Updates**: these are traditional operating system updates, typically released the second Tuesday of each month (though they can be released at any time).  These include security, critical, and driver updates. Windows Update for Business also treats non-Windows updates (such as those for Microsoft Office or Visual Studio) as Quality Updates. These non-Windows Updates are known as *Microsoft Updates* and devices can be optionally configured to receive such updates along with their Windows Updates.
- **Non-deferrable updates**: Currently, antimalware and antispyware Definition Updates from Windows Update cannot be deferred.
 
Both Feature and Quality Updates can be deferred from deploying to client devices by a Windows Update for Business administrator within a bounded range of time from when those updates are first made available on the Windows Update Service. This deferral capability allows administrators to validate deployments as they are pushed to all client devices configured for Windows Update for Business.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Category</th>
<th>Maximum deferral</th>
<th>Deferral increments</th>
<th>Example</th>
<th>Classification GUID</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Feature Updates</td>
<td>180 days</td>
<td>Days</td>
<td>From Windows 10, version 1511 to version 1607</td>
<td>3689BDC8-B205-4AF4-8D4A-A63924C5E9D5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="4">Quality Updates</td>
<td rowspan="4">30 days</td>
<td rowspan="4">Days</td>
<td>Security updates</td>
<td>0FA1201D-4330-4FA8-8AE9-B877473B6441</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Drivers (optional)</td>
<td>EBFC1FC5-71A4-4F7B-9ACA-3B9A503104A0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Non-security updates</td>
<td>CD5FFD1E-E932-4E3A-BF74-18BF0B1BBD83</td>
</tr><tr><td>Microsoft updates (Office, Visual Studio, etc.)</td><td>varies</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>Non-deferrable</td>
<td>No deferral</td>
<td>No deferral</td>
<td>Definition updates</td>
<td>E0789628-CE08-4437-BE74-2495B842F43B</td>
</tr>
</table> 

>[!NOTE]
>For information about classification GUIDs, see [WSUS Classification GUIDs](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ff357803.aspx).

## Comparing Windows Update for Business in Windows 10, version 1511 and version 1607

Windows Update for Business was first made available in Windows 10, version 1511. In Windows 10, version 1607 (also known as the Anniversary Update), there are several new or changed capabilities provided as well as updated behavior.   

>[!NOTE]
>For more information on Current Branch and Current Branch for Business, see [Windows 10 servicing options](introduction-to-windows-10-servicing.md).

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr><th>Capability</th><th>Windows 10, version 1511</th><th>Windows 10, version 1607</th>           
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr><td><p>Select Servicing Options: CB or CBB</p></td><td><p>Not available.  To defer updates, all systems must be on the Current Branch for Business (CBB)</p></td><td><p>Ability to set systems on the Current Branch (CB) or Current Branch for Business (CBB).</p></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Quality Updates</p></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Quality Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 4 weeks</li><li>In weekly increments</li></ul></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Quality Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 30 days</li><li>In daily increments</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Feature Updates</p></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Feature Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 8 months</li><li>In monthly increments</li></ul></td><td><p>Able to defer receiving Feature Updates:</p><ul><li>Up to 180 days</li><li>In daily increments</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Pause updates</p></td><td><ul><li>Feature Updates and Quality Updates paused together</li><li>Maximum of 35 days</li></ul></td><td><p>Features and Quality Updates can be paused separately.</p><ul><li>Feature Updates: maximum 60 days</li><li>Quality Updates: maximum 35 days</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><p>Drivers</p></td><td><p>No driver-specific controls</p></td><td><p>Drivers can be selectively excluded from Windows Update for Business.</p></td></tr>
</tbody></table>


## Steps to manage updates for Windows 10

<table><tbody>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Learn about updates and servicing branches](waas-overview.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Prepare servicing strategy for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-strategy-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Build deployment rings for Windows 10 updates](waas-deployment-rings-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Assign devices to servicing branches for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-branches-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">[Optimize update delivery for Windows 10 updates](waas-optimize-windows-10-updates.md)</td></tr>
<tr><td style="border: 0px;width: 24px">![done](images/checklistdone.png)</td><td align="left" style="border: 0px">Manage updates using Windows Update for Business (this topic)</br>
or [Manage Windows 10 updates using Windows Server Update Services](waas-manage-updates-wsus.md)</br>
or [Manage Windows 10 updates using System Center Configuration Manager](waas-manage-updates-configuration-manager.md)</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
</br>

## Monitor Windows Updates using Update Compliance

In order to be able to track Windows updates deployed by Windows Update for Business, and make sure that all your machines are up to date, you can levergae Update Compliance.

Update Compliance is a solution built within Operations Management Suite (OMS), a cloud-based monitoring and automation service which has a flexible servicing subscription based off data usage/retention. For more information about OMS, see [Operations Management Suite overview](http://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/operations-management-suite-overview/).

Update Compliance uses the Windows telemetry that is part of all Windows 10 devices. It collects system data including update installation progress, Windows Update for Business (WUfB) configuration data, and other update-specific information, and then sends this data privately to a secure cloud to be stored for analysis and usage within the solution.

![OS Update Overview](images/uc-11.png)

For more information about Update Compliance, see [Monitor Windows Updates using Update Compliance](update-compliance-monitor.md).

## Related topics

- [Update Windows 10 in the enterprise](waas-update-windows-10.md)
- [Overview of Windows as a service](waas-overview.md)
- [Prepare servicing strategy for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-strategy-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Build deployment rings for Windows 10 updates](waas-deployment-rings-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Assign devices to servicing branches for Windows 10 updates](waas-servicing-branches-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Optimize update delivery for Windows 10 updates](waas-optimize-windows-10-updates.md)
- [Configure Delivery Optimization for Windows 10 updates](waas-delivery-optimization.md)
- [Configure BranchCache for Windows 10 updates](waas-branchcache.md)
- [Manage updates for Windows 10 Mobile Enterprise and Windows 10 IoT Mobile](waas-mobile-updates.md) 
- [Configure Windows Update for Business](waas-configure-wufb.md)
- [Integrate Windows Update for Business with management solutions](waas-integrate-wufb.md)
- [Walkthrough: use Group Policy to configure Windows Update for Business](waas-wufb-group-policy.md)
- [Walkthrough: use Intune to configure Windows Update for Business](waas-wufb-intune.md)
- [Manage Windows 10 updates using Windows Server Update Services](waas-manage-updates-wsus.md)
- [Manage Windows 10 updates using System Center Configuration Manager](waas-manage-updates-configuration-manager.md)
- [Manage device restarts after updates](waas-restart.md)
