---
Description: IEAK 11 file types
MS-HAID: 'p\_ieak\_ie11.ieak\_11\_file\_types'
MSHAttr: 'PreferredLib:/library'
title: IEAK 11 file types
---

# IEAK 11 file types


File types used or generated by tools in IEAK 11:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">File type</th>
<th align="left">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>.adm</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>An administration file used by Group Policy to define the system policies and restrictions for Windows. You can use IEAK to change and restrict these settings. View the file in your &lt;<em>systemdrive</em>&gt;:\Program Files\Windows IEAK 11\policies folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>.bat</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>An ASCII text file that includes a sequence of operating system commands, including the parameters and operators supported by the batch command language. When you run the batch file from a command prompt, the computer processes each command sequentially.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>.bmp, .gif, .jpeg, .jpg</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>Graphic files you use in your custom browser package, which can include .bmp, .gif, .jpeg, or .jpg file formats. For more information about the requirements for graphics that you customize, see [IEAK 11: Customization guidelines for your Toolbar button and Favorites list icons](ieak_11_customization_guidelines_for_your_toolbar_button_and_favorites_list_icons.md).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>.cab</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>Cabinet files are used to organize and maintain the compressed installation files that are copied to your employee’s computer. They can also include additional self-extracting .exe files that you use to install browser and custom components. IEAK includes tools to help you build and digitally sign the .cab files you create for custom components. For more information, see [IEAK 11 and security](ieak_11_and_security.md).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>.cif</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>The component information file (IESetup.cif), which identifies the components you’re going to install with Internet Explorer, including any new components or component updates. Each component in this file has an associated <em>ComponentID</em>, which is used by Windows Update Setup to determine if a component already exists with that ID, and if a newer version exists.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>.cmp</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>Connection profile files are created by the Connection Manager Administration Kit (CMAK), and include information specified by your employees. Don’t edit these files. Any changes you make can be overwritten by the employee.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>.cms</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>Service provider files are generated by CMAK, and specify the configuration of the phone book and most of the other functions of your service profiles.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>.exe</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>The executable file controls the setup process, by installing the .cab files that install the custom browser package on your employee’s computers.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>.inf</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>Setup information files that are associated with .cab files to provide additional installation and version information. The .inf file can reference files in the .cab file, as well as files at other URLs. For more information see, [Creating uninstallation (.INF) files for custom components](creating_uninstallation__inf__files_for_custom_components.md).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>.ins</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>Internet settings files, which configure the browser and its components during setup. You can create multiple versions of your custom browser package by customizing this file. For more information, see [Using Internet Settings (.INS) Files](using_internet_settings__ins__files.md).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>.pac, .js, .jvs</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>The Auto-proxy script file format that tells your custom version of IE whether to connect directly to a host or to use a proxy server. This file can be in the Jscript (.js), JavaScript (.jvs), or proxy auto-configuration (.pac) file format. For more information, see [Automatic Configuration: Internet Explorer Customization Wizard](automatic_configuration_internet_explorer_customization_wizard.md).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>.pvk</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>A private key file that includes the private key associated with a digital signature. For more information, see [IEAK 11 and security](ieak_11_and_security.md).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>.sed</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>Connection profile files, created by CMAK, which include the instructions for building the self-extracting executable (.exe) file for your service profiles. You must not edit your .sed files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td align="left"><p>.spc</p></td>
<td align="left"><p>The software publishing certificate file, which includes:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>The name and other identifying information of the owner of the certificate.</p></li>
<li><p>The public key associated with the certificate.</p></li>
<li><p>The serial number.</p></li>
<li><p>The length of time the certificate is valid.</p></li>
<li><p>The digital signature of the certification authority that issued the certificate.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

 

 



